Spotsylvania County Board of Zoning Appeals        
Board Room, Holbert Building -  9104  Courthouse Road, Spotsylvania VA 22553
MINUTES: July  15 , 2025
Call to Order:  Mr. Bell  called the meeting to order at 7: 0 0  p.m.
Members Present:   John Winkler Battlefield District
Elijah Brown Salem District
Gregory Bell Lee Hill District
John Thillmann Chancellor  District
Larry Bramlette Courtland  District
Cindy Robinson Berkeley District
Staff Present: Paulette Mann, Board of Zoning Appeals  Secretary
Beth Shealy, CZA, Zoning Administrator
Rachel Carr, Zoning Manager
Scott Lamolinara, Code Enforcement Officer
Mr.  Bell  - It is  now  7:00 , so  we  will  call  this  meeting  to  order.  The  chair  now  declares  the  July
15th,  2025  meeting  of  the  Spotsylvania  County  Board  of  Zoning  Appeals  now  in  session.  Welcome
to  the  Spotsylvania  County  Board  of  Zoning  Appeals  meeting.  I am  Gregory  Bell,  the  chairman  of
the  Board  of  Zoning  Appeals.  I represent  the  Lee  Hill  district.  The  board  members  seated  before
you  represent  the  six  voting  districts  of  Spotsylvania  County.  The  members  are  Mr.  Elijah  Brown,
representing  the  Salem  district,  Mr.  John  Winkler,  representing  the  battlefield  district,  Mr.  John
Thi llman n , representing  the  Chancellor  district,  Mr.  Larry  Bramlett,  representing  the  Courtland
district,  and  Ms.  Cindy  Robinson,  representing  the  Berkeley  district.  We  will  move  on  to  elections.
At  o ur  last  meeting,  we  did  not  have  a  quorum,  so  we  could  not  elect  officers.  However,  according
to  the  bylaws,  we  are , at  the  first  regular  meeting  in  June,  to  elect  new  members.  I will  open  this
up  to  the  board  for  any  discussion  regarding  this.  I know  we  have  quite  a  few  new  members,  so  I'll
open  it  up  to  discussion  in  terms  of  d o  we,  and  this  is  not  self-serving,  but  do  we  want  to  maintain
some of the positions?
Mr.  Winker  - Mr.  Chairman,  I recommend  that  since  we  actually  raised  this  issue  back  in  January ,
or  whenever , I recommend  that  we  keep  the  positions  as  they  are , unless  somebody  wants  to  back
out or contest a position. So, I motion that we keep the current leadership as is.
Ms.  Mann  –  Mr.  Hilldrup  is  not  currently  appointed,  so  we  will  need  a  new  nomination.   Please
make  sure  you  turn  on  your  microphone , the  audience  is  saying  they  can't  hear  anyone , and  talk
into the tip of it.
Mr.  Bramlette  - What  I said  was  I'm  getting  ready  to  move,  hopefully.  So,  I couldn't  serve  out  any
position.  So,  I have  to  take  myself  out  of  that  group.  But  I would  recommend  that  one  of  the  new
members  be  the  vice -chair  and  learn  how  to  be  the  chair  for  the  next  time  around,  because  it's

Board of Zoning Appeals  Minutes          July  15,  202 5
P  a  g  e   | 2
going  to  still  be  new  member  no  matter  what.  So,  it  might  as  well  be  a  new  member  in  a  learning
position to be able to move up.
Election of Officers:
Motion and vote:  On a motion by Mr. Winkler, seconded by Mr. Thillman n , the BZA voted to 
elect Greg Bell as Chairman, Cindy Robinson as Vice-Chairman, and Mr. Winkler as Secretary.  
Vote:
Ayes: 6 Winkler, Bramlette, Robinson, Bell, Brown, and Thillmann
Nays: 0
Absent: 1 Quann
Abstain: 0
The motion passed 6-0.
Mr.  Bell  - Before  proceeding  to  the  public  hearing  portion  of  this  meeting,  there  are  a  few  items
on  the  agenda.  Ms.  Mann,  can  you  just  clarify  for  me  on  this  one?  I know  because  we  did  not  have
a meeting in  June, I don't think we approved the April 15th meeting minutes.
Ms. Mann –  That is correct, we will need a motion to approve the minutes of April 15, 2025.
Mr.  Bell  - I believe  in  attendance,  that  meeting  was  myself,  Mr.  Winkler,  Mr.  Hilldrup,  and  Mr.
Thi ll man n . Is  there  any  discussion  around  those  meeting  minutes?  We'll  approve.  Second.  All  in
favor?  Aye.  Opposed.  Meeting  minutes  are  approved  for  the  April  15th  meeting.  As  we  move
forward  with  the  procedure  for  this  public  hearing,  all  comments  are  to  be  directed  to  the  chairman
of  this  board.  There  is  not  to  be  any  conversation  between  those  in  favor  and  those  opposed.
Everyone  speaking  will  present  their  case  from  the  podium.  Please  state  your  name,  address,  and
case  number.  You  can  get  one  of  the  sheets  provided  to  you  up  front  to  refer  to.  Applicants  or  their
designated  representative  will  be  given  15  minutes  to  present  their  case.  The  applicant's  case  is
presented  first,  after  which  the  opportunity  will  be  given  to  those  in  favor  of  the  request  to  present
their  views,  then  opposed,  followed  by  the  applicant's  rebuttal.  This  will  be  the  procedure  for  all
public  hearings  before  they  are  voted.  The  BZA  can  either  vote  the  case  this  evening  or  delay  it  30
days.  The  applicant  can  remain  for  that  process  or  leave  and  be  notified  by  mail  of  the  BZA's
decision.
Review & Approval of Minutes from April 15 , 2025 meeting
Motion and vote:  On a motion by Mr. Thillman n , seconded by Mr. Winkler, the BZA voted to 
approve the minutes.    
Vote:
Ayes: 6 Winkler, Bramlette, Robinson, Bell, Brown, and Thillmann
Nays: 0
Absent: 1 Quann

Board of Zoning Appeals  Minutes          July  15,  202 5
P  a  g  e   | 3
Abstain: 0
The motion passed 6-0.
Mr. Bell - Having said that, Ms. Administrator, first case, please.
Mr.  Winkler  - Mr.  Chairman,  just  one  quick  point.  When  they're  giv ing  their  address,  they  might
want to give their voting district as well so that we'll know which district they're in.
Mr.  Bell  - Thank  you.  Can  you  please  give  your  voting  district  so  we  can  know  what  district  you're
in as well? Thank you.
Ms.  Shealy,  Zoning  Adminis trator  - Mr.  Chairman,  before  we  get  started,  Susan  Cooke  of  the
County  Attorney ’s  Office  is  unable  to  attend  tonight  due  to  circumstances  beyond  her  control.
We're  asking  for  a  continuation  of  the  Ratcliff  and  the  Ramsey  case  until  the  August  meeting.  Ms.
Cooke  was  authorized  by  the  Board  of  Supervisors  in  their  meetings  to  address  the  Board  of  Zoning
appeals.  In  the  past  cases,  Mr.  Leming , which  is  one  of  the  two  cases  we're  asking  to  postpone,  has
requested  three  postponements.  Mr.  Leming  had  requested  three  previous  continuances.  In
fairness, I would ask that you would grant a continuous for the Ramsey and the Ratcliffe cases. 
Mr. Leming  –  Discussed his desire to move forward and that they have only requested deferral 
one time.  There was muffled discussion about hearing all of the cases this evening and 
continuing to next meeting to allow the cases to be heard and allow for Ms. Cooke to be present 
at the next meeting.
Mr.  Thillmann  - So,  what  we  would  do  is  we'd  have  the  hearing.  We'd  leave  the  record  open  for  a
subsequent  meeting,  at  which  time  we  would  make  a  decision,  I think.  And  in  the  meantime,  if  we
had a question for the C ounty A ttorney, we could ask the question and get their input.
Ms.  Shealy  - Can  I clarify  what  the  county  attorney's  position  is  as  far  as  what  she  would  be  doing
at  the  meeting?  She's  not  doing  a  presentation.  It  would  be  an  address  during  the  public  comment
portion of the meeting, which is permitted.
Ms.  Shealy  stated  the  applicant  has  requested  deferral  of  their  appeal  until  such  time  that  the  fully
seated  seven-member  Board  of  Zoning  Appeals  can  convene  such  hearing.   She  stated  staff  is
oppossed  to  the  deferral  because  it ’s  already  been  delayed  and  there  are  large  advertising  costs
associated for each time it is delayed.
Mr.  Thillmann  - So  we'd  take  care  of  the  applicant,  we'd  have  the  hearing,  leave  the  record  open,
make  a  decision  at  the  next  meeting,  and  by  leaving  the  record  open,  we  would  allow  anybody  to
say  anything  they  wanted  to  if  we  had  a  question.  I used  to  do  it  on  the  Planning  Commission  in
Fairfax C ounty.
Mr.  Tillmann  - So  we'd  take  care  of  the  applicant,  we'd  have  the  hearing,  leave  the  record  open,
make  a  decision  at  the  next  meeting,  and  by  leaving  the  record  open,  we  would  allow  anybody  to

Board of Zoning Appeals  Minutes          July  15,  202 5
P  a  g  e   | 4
say anything they wanted to if we had a question. I used to do it on the Planning Commission.
Ms. Mann - Right. We leave the hearing open.
Unknown  speaker  - We  would  take  care  of  the  applicant  who  wants  to  present  his  case,  leave  the
record  open,  and  at  the  next  meeting,  if  someone  else  wants  to  testify  in  public,  and  it  might  be  the
county  attorney,  we  would  allow  that,  and  then  we  would  decide.  Our  bylaws  allow  for  us  not  to
make  a  decision  on  the  evening  of  the  presentation.  There  you  go.  Can  then  return  to  return  within
30  days  to  make  that  decision.  So  automatically,  it's  open.  Okay.  But  the  bylaws  do  allow  that.  I
think you'll agree. 
Mr.  Leming  - Yes,  sir.  It's  your  bylaw.  Don't  require  that  you  make  a  decision  tonight  in  regards
to  the  proposal,  the  Planning  Commission  and  the  BZA  are  completely  different  answers.  You're
the one, let me give you a point. I think you can leave the record open.
Unknown  speaker  - Right.  But  we'll  allow  you  to  put  on  your  That's  what  I'm  doing.  Is  that  the
case  tonight?  Yes,  sir.  Fine.  I appreciate  that.  That  happened.  Well,  it's  my  district.  I'd  like  to
accommodate you. Yes, sir. All right. I appreciate that.
Ms.  Shealy  - And  for  the  record,  I would  like  to  say  that  this  has  been  continued  three  times.
Initially,  it  was  in  February,  I believe,  for  the  first  case,  and  Mr.  Lemming  asked  me  to  continue
it . W hich  at  that  point,  it  had  not  been  heard  by  the  board,  so  I agreed  to  that.  The  second  time,  Mr.
Leming  asked  for  a  continuation.  It  was  granted.  The  most  recent  meeting,  we  did  not  have  the
meeting,  but  I was  given  the  request  and  spoke  to  the  chairman,  and  it  was  requested  by  Mr.
Leming's  office,  again,  if  not  him  directly.  But  Ms.  Healey  was  here,  and  it  was  requested  at  that
time to have a third continuation. I would like to clear the record on that.
Mr. Bell - Does that mean that we have the hearing now, next month, 30 days, we can still have a
further hearing within the decision, or is it strictly limited to the decision.
Ms. Mann –  You ’d leave the hearing open to allow the applicant and any citizens speak.
Ms.  Shealy  - There  seems  to  be,  and  I'm  trying  to  look  through  the  bylaws,  where  I believe  it  states
the  board  or  the  chairman  or  vice  chairman  may  be  able  to  consult  with  counsel  to  be  able  to  get
clarification.  I want  to  make  sure  whatever  we're  doing  I can  see  it  completely  here,  and  I'm  reading
it. I just want to make sure before we make any steps going forward.
Mr. Bramlette -  Well, let me make a comment about that. My concern is that the applicant is 
ready to go. He stated in three different instances where the county attorney can't represent the 
board. I think we're on very good ground to have the hearing, not make a decision, decision until 
the next meeting. Then if the county attorney has a statement they'd like to make as part of a 
public hearing, we can hear them out, then we can make a decision. By that way, we take care of 
the applicant's concern. I don't want the applicant to go to court and say  w e didn't do what we 
were supposed to do. I'd like to give him the opportunity to make his presentation. That's all. I 
agree with that.

Board of Zoning Appeals  Minutes          July  15,  202 5
P  a  g  e   | 5
Motion and vote:  On a motion by Mr. Bramlette, seconded by Mr. Thillmann  to hear the 
Ramsey case this evening and continue to the August meeting.
Vote:
Ayes: 5 Winkler, Robinson, Brown , Thillmann , and Bramlette
Nays: 1 Bell
Absent:  1 Quann
Abstain: 0
The motion passed 5-1, with Mr. Bell voting no.
Ms.  Shealy  - the  other  case  for  the  Ratcliff ’s , they  have  a  variance  also  on  the  docket  tonight.  That
one also I'm requesting a continuance  for.
Motion and vote:  On a motion by Mr. Thillman, seconded by Mr. Winkler to defer the 
Ratcliff ’s variance request to the August meeting.
Vote:
Ayes: 6 Winkler, Robinson, Bell, Brown, Thillmann , and Bramlette
Nays: 0
Absent: 1 Quann
Abstain: 0
The motion passed 6-0.
There  was  discussion  about  process  and  how  soon  cases  need  to  be  heard.   There  was  also
discussion about calling a special meeting.
Ms.  Shealy  - I believe  that  that  is  covered  in  the  bylaws  under,  let's  see,  Article  3,  Meeting
Quorums  and  Voting,  paragraph , it says,  The  B Z A  may  adjourn  and  continue  a  regular  meeting  if
all  applications  or  other  matters  schedule  for  a  hearing  cannot  be  disposed  of  on  the  day  set.  That
would  definitely  apply  for  that  one,  but  in  the  next  regular  meeting.  That's  the  only  thing  that  I see
that would even address that.
Mr. Bell - Can you state that again, Ms. Shealy?
Ms. Shealy - The B Z A may adjourn and continue a regular meeting if all applications or other 
matters scheduled for hearing cannot be disposed of on the day set. That may not really cover it, 
but that's the only thing that I see about continuance. The next schedule date, I believe, is on 
August 19th. I'm not readily finding anything else in the bylaws. We have continued to the next 
meeting, though, previously. 
Ms. Ratcliff –  She stated that she is prepared to present her case and will be willing to be 
continued to the August BZA meeting.

Board of Zoning Appeals  Minutes          July  15,  202 5
P  a  g  e   | 6
Motion and vote:  On a motion by Mr. Thillman n , seconded by Mr. Bramlette, the BZA voted 
to hear the Ratcliff case this evening and continue to the August BZA meeting.
Vote:
Ayes: 6 Winkler, Robinson, Bell , Brown, Thillmann , and Bramlette
Nays: 0
Absent: 1 Quann
Abstain: 0
The motion passed 6-0.
Ms.  Shealy  - V25-0002:   Deborah  Sharpe  requests  a  variance  to  Section  23-5.2.3(7)(A)  of  the
Spotsylvania  County  Zoning  Ordinance  to  allow  residential  accessory  structures  to  be  located  in  a
front  yard  containing  less  than  two  (2)  acres  and  to  Section  23-5.2.3(7)(B)  to  allow  residential
accessory  structures  to  be  located  closer  than  ten  (10)  feet  from  the  rear  and  side  lot  lines.  The
property  is  zoned  Agricultural-2  (A-2)  and  is  located  at  8000  Courthouse  Road,  Spotsylvania,  VA.
Tax  parcel  47-A-103.  Berkeley  Voting  District.  Let  me  see  if  I can  get  my  slides  to  work  here.
Thank  you.  Okay,  so  this  is  the  background  for  this  case.  Tax  Map  47A-103  is  approximately  1.14
acres,  and  it's  zoned  Agricultural  2.  Section  23-5.  2.  3,  paragraph  7A  of  the  zoning  ordinance  does
not  allow  for  accessory  structures  to  be  located  in  any  minimum  required  front  yard.  In  this  case,
that  would  be  30  feet  due  to  the  zoning  district  that  it's  located  in.  That  minimum  required  front
yard  is  measured  from  the  property  line.   On  any  other  lot,  let's  see,  on  any  other  property  line,  on
any  other  lot,  in  any  front  yard,  which  means  from  the  plane  of  the  house  to  the  front  property  line
that  is  less  than  two  acres  or  in  the  resort  residential  zoning  district  on  any  lot  less  than  one  acre.
The  property  has  multiple  existing  structures  that  are  located  in  the  front  yard  as  well.  T he  property
is  less  than  two  acres,  these  structures  are  not  permitted  in  the  front  yard.  So  again,  that  front  yard
is  from  the  property  line  to  the  primary  structure,  which  is  the  home  in  this  case.  So,  with  less  than
two  acres,  you  can't  have  an  accessory  structure.  It  has  to  be  from  the  plane  of  the  house  to  the  rear
for that. And then there are structures on here also that the side and rear setbacks are not 10 feet.
A question was raised asking what is the nature of the structures.  Are they sheds or kennels?
Ms.  Shealy  - Yes,  sir.  They're  kennels.  There's  also  a  gazebo,  a  bee  structure  for  the  keeping  of
bees.  There  are  structures  that  are  sheds  also,  as  well  as  the  kennels.  There  are  multiple  ones.  I do
have  that  in  another  slide  to  go  through  what  each  structure  is.  Let's  see.  We  got  all  those  photos.
I'm  going  to  see.  Okay.  So,  Section  23-5.  23 .7  states,  any  residential  accessory  structure  may
extend  into  required  rear  and  side  yards,  but  will  be  no  closer  than  10  feet  from  the  rear  and  side
yard  lot  lines,  or  in  cluster  subdivisions,  no  closer  than  5  feet  from  the  rear  and  side  lot  lines.  So
again,  this  property  has  multiple  existing  structures  that  do  not  meet  the  required  side  and  rear
10-foot  setbacks.  Okay,  so  this  is  the  slide  that  shows  the  buildings  that  require  a  variance  and  the
setbacks  that  were  provided  by  the  applicant  and  her  contractor.  The  first  building,  I tried  to
number  these.  They  might  be  a  little  bit  difficult  to  see.  See  if  I can  point  them  out  here.  The  first
building  here  is  the  lean -to  that  was  added  to  another  structure,  and  it's  8  feet  from  the  side  property
line, and that would be a required 10-foot setback

Board of Zoning Appeals  Minutes          July  15,  202 5
P  a  g  e   | 7
The  structure  number  2  is  a  bee  p avilion,  and  it's  5  feet  from  the  side  property  line,  and  it's  located
in  the  front  yard.  So  again,  it  can't  be  located  in  the  front  yard  for  less  than  2  acres.  We're  not
ready  for  that  yet.  Okay.  Building  3  is  a  kennel  pavilion,  and  that  is  also  5  feet  from  the  property
line  and  located  in  the  front  yard.  Building  number  4,  back  here,  is  also  a  kennel  pavilion.  It's  5
feet  from  the  rear  property , so  building  5  this  is  the  property  line,  should  be  10 ’. Building  5  is  this
little  structure  up  here,  and  that's  a  greenhouse  that's  located  in  the  front  yard.  It  would  meet  the
setbacks,  but  it  is  located  in  the  front  yard  and  it's  not  allowed  to  be  in  the  front  yard.  Building  6
is  a  gazebo  that's  also  located  in  the  front  yard,  does  meet  the  setbacks,  but  is  not  permitted  in  the
front  yard.  And  building  7,  it's  actually  these  two  sheds  back  here,  and  both  are  on  the  rear  property
line,  and  one  is  also  on  the  side  property  line . S o , there's  no  setbacks  for  those.  In  conclusion,  it's
not  a  unique  situation  as  there  are  many  A -2  properties  that  have  less  than  2  acres  and  are  also  not
permitted  to  have  accessory  structures  in  their  front  yard.   Most  Zoning  districts  in  the  county
require  a  minimum  of  10-foot  side  and  rear  setbacks.  Examples  of  parcels  that  may  have  different
requirements  are  proffered  subdivisions,  clustered  subdivisions,  and  nonconforming  accessory
structures.  So  proffered  subdivisions,  clustered  subdivisions,  those  are  all  provided  in  the
ordinance  and  through  the  rezoning  process.  The  property  does  not  fall  into  any  of  these  categories.
The  applicant  has  stated  that  she  has  a  disability  and  requires  these  structures  to  be  in  close
proximity  to  her  home  in  order  for  her  to  utilize  them.  Approval  of  this  variant's  request  will  allow
the  existing  structures  to  remain  on  the  property  in  the  existing  locations.  A  permit  will  be  able  to
be  approved  through  the  zoning  office  if  this  is  approved  tonight  by  the  board.  Denial  of  this
variance  will  require  the  existing  structures  to  be  relocated  on  the  property  so  that  they  meet  the
requirements or they would need to be removed. Are there any questions from the board for me?
Ms. Robinson - Were these properties given building permits?
Ms. Shealy - There is an application in for building permits at this time.
There was discussion about a hardship and whether  they meet those qualifications.
Ms.  Shealy  -  Right.  If  they  meet  those  qualifications,  then  it  can  be  approved  by  the  board.  In  that
case,  it's  not  really  opening  it  up  to  everybody  because  there  is  a  hardship  or  there  are  other  reasons
why it's coming to you.
Mr Thillman n  –  The hardship here is her disability?
Ms. Shealy –  Yes, sir, that ’s  what is on the application.
Mr.  Winkler  - If  we  decide  that  we  would  allow  this  based  on  the  fact  that  the  individual  has  a
disability  under  the  Disability  Act,  the  Federal  Governments  Act,  et  cetera,  she  would  be  okay,
right?  If  we  made  a  decision  to  be  okay,  it  doesn't  necessarily  broaden  out  the  approval  for  other
applications in the same circumstances.
Ms. Shealy –  They would all have to be heard on an individual basis.

Board of Zoning Appeals  Minutes          July  15,  202 5
P  a  g  e   | 8
Mr.  Winkler  - Also,  one  thing  I did  notice  is  that  the  actual  house  itself  is  at  the  very  back  of  the
property  and  can't  go  further  back  than  that.  That  might , I don't  think  it's  an  exception  because  I
think  most  properties  on  the  homes  will  be  more  in  the  center  or  more  in  the  front,  but  not  at  the
very edge, one way or the other. So that might make a discrimination factor as well.
Mr.  Bramlette  - Those  factors.  To  address  your  first  comment  about  precedent  setting.  The  ADA?
We  have  never  at  this  board  that  I've  been  sitting  here,  which  is  a  little  over  12  years,  had  a  situation
where  what  we  did  set  changes  in  motion  to  the  rules.  The  rules  stated  each  case  then  has  to  come
to  us.  It  may  be  the  same  thing,  but  it  still  has  to  come  to  us  for  us  to  listen  to  what  is  there  and
then  make  a  decision.  That  was  what  I was  hoping  for,  and  I was  hoping  the  staff  would  say.  Yeah,
but  that's  the  fact  that  we  make  a  decision  does  not  change  the  zoning.  It  doesn't  establish  a
precedent . It  doesn't  establish  a  precedent  for  something  else.  Okay.  All  right.  Thank  you.  Time
for a hearing. Mr. Chairman, time for a hearing. Sure.
Ms. Robinson - I'd like to make a motion that we approve the request.
Ms. Robinson was informed the hearing hasn ’t occurred and we must allow the applicant to 
present their case.
Ms.  Deborah  Sharpe  - 8000  Courthouse  Road.  I have  to  look  up  all  the  other  information.  Case
number  V25-0002.  I'm  in  Berkeley  district.  I'm  A -2  Property,  Tax  Parcel  47 -A -103.  The  disability
part  comes  in.  I'm  a  30%  disabled  veteran,  but  they  weaseled  that  down  to  100.  I'm  a  newly  retired ,
disabled , federal  government  employee.  I've  been  at  the  house.  I purchased  it  June  1993.  Sorry,
I'm  in  a  lot  of  pain  right  now,  but  I love  Spotsylvania.  I actually  drove  through  when  I was  stationed
at the Pentagon as a POC, and I drove through Spotsylvania on my way to a good fishing place.
Mr. Bell –  Ma ’am if you need to take a seat at the table, that is permitted.
Ms.  Sharpe  - I'm  good.  I'm  good.  I drove  through  Spotsylvania  and  I said,  h ow  nice.  What  a  little
podunk  place.  Who  would n ’t want  to  live  here?  And  look  where  I am.  I loved  it.  I bought  my
house  in  '93,  returning  from  overseas  in  the  military  and  things.  But  I love  my  property.  I love
Spotsylvania.  Now  that  I'm  retired,  I'm  going  to  put  both  feet  in  with  Spotsylvania  and  do  more
charity  work  again  and  things  like  that.  But  getting  back  to  the  description  of  my  property,  I gave
you  a  packet  of  expensive  photos.  The  Gazebo,  I can't  stay  out  in  the  sun  for  a  long  time.  I have
RSD  in  three  limbs.  There's  a  lot  to  go  with  that.  I have  to  have  shade.  In  the  January  third,  1993
snowstorm,  I lost  all  my  trees,  everything.  So,  I've  been  trying  to  build  up  trees.  You  see  the
gazebo?  It's  a  simple  one.  I didn't  realize  I couldn't  have  any  structures  in  the  front  yard.  The  one,
this  one  is  a  dog  kennel  roof.  There  are  more  photos  of  various  dog  kennel  roofs  through  storms
and  what  not.  They've  all  collapsed  every  single  snowstorm.  It's  cost  me  thousands  and  thousands
and  thousands  of  dollars,  put  my  dogs  at  risk,  all  kinds  of  things.  It  makes  me , it makes  it  hard  for
me  to  have  my  animals  and  keep  it  clean  if  I can't  put  a  sturdy  roof  over  it.  Other  than  carports,
this  is  the  only  type  of  roof  we  could  come  up  with.  My  neighbor's  out  back.  I've  known  Mr.  Heller ,
h e  passed  away  a  couple  of  years  ago,  well  over  30  years,  like  a  father.  He  said,  Deborah,  I don't
care  what  you  do.  He  was  going  to  sell  me  some  acreage  behind,  but  never  got  to  it,  and  he  passed
away.  His  granddaughter  doesn't  want  to  sell  me  acreage,  but  she  answered.  She  said,  She  doesn't

Board of Zoning Appeals  Minutes          July  15,  202 5
P  a  g  e   | 9
care  as  long  as  my  things  are  on  my  property.  She  doesn't  care  how  close  to  the  proximity.  The
front  yard.  I'm  not  a  good  photographer.  This  is  over  a  month  ago,  so  you're  more  than  welcome
to  come  out.  It's  well  more  overgrown,  well  more  gorgeous.  But  everything  is  right  next  to  my
house.  I have  two  driveways.  I have  the  kennel  in  the  front  yard.  The  beehive  actually  is  set  way
more  than  15  foot  off  the  property  line  because  bees  have  to  be  minimum  10  foot  from  the  property
line,  your  neighbor.   So , it's  15  or  20  feet  off  the  property  line.  They've  been  moved  around  three
or  four  or  five  times  over  the  years  because  of  snowstorm  disasters  with  roofing.  And  like  you
said,  why  are  things  in  the  front  yard?  Where  else  am  I going  to  put  things?  One  of  the  sheds  in  the
backyard  was  well  more  than  30  years.  I took  it  down.  You  could  see  my  front  porch,  the  white
structure,  the  other  dog  kennel.  I give  my  dogs  huge  room,  10  by  20s  each  dog,  or  some  have  two
kennels  for  one.  My  disability  elevator  is  right  here,  so  I can  ride  around  with  my  scooter  or
sometimes  I use  my  John  Deere  zero  turn  as  transportation.  But  my  greenhouse,  it's  full  of  tomatoes
for  fall.  What  does  my  garden  look  like  right  now?  Because  of  no  rain  and  severe  heat,  it's  gone.
But  in  my  greenhouse,  I have  all  new  plants  ready  to  put  in  the  ground.  I'm  severely  disabled
mobility-wise,  but  it's  not , it's  not  a  deterrent.  It's  just  a  challenge  to  do  something  different.  Now,
if  I put  my  dogs,  say  if  I put  all  the  kennels  in  the  backyard,  it  would  be  a  mess.   It  would  be  a
nightmare.  I do  the  management  for  the  dogs  for  the  poop,  and  it's  cleaned  up.  I know  I had  one
neighbor  complain  about  bizarre  things,  but  she's  very  elderly,  and  she  will  find  out  what
defamation  means.  But  none  of  it's  true.  The  lean -to  is  just  another  roof-on-roof  jacks,  not  actually
attached.  Well,  the  roof  jacks  are  attached,  but  it  was  the  easiest  way  to  let  air  through  and  not
build  up  snow  and  weather  like  that.  It's  eight  feet,  if  not  more.  I was  going  to  get  it  surveyed
again.  I've  had  it  surveyed  four  or  five  over  the  years.  I just  know  my  fence  is  two  feet  inside  the
property  line.  Then  you  can  measure.  I have  neighbors  that  are  well  past  the  property  line  with
their  trees  and  everything  on  my  property.  These  are  some  more  kennel  roofs  that  collapsed.  This
year,  it  cost  me  2,000  just  to  get  the  snow  out.  My  contractor  answered  the  call  and  actually  helped
me  get  the  kennel  panels  off,  all  the  metal,  all  the  snow  out  of  the  kennels.  They  were  full . In  the
meantime,  I had  all  the  dogs  in  the  garage.  You  know  what  I mean?  To  me,  it's  all  about  the  dogs.
I'm  sorry,  the  kennel , the  one  in  the  front  is  closer  than  10  feet.  I hired  them.  They  hired  someone
else,  and  it  just  became  like  that.  The  other  neighbor  didn't  even  respond.  I only  have  that  one
neighbor  who  never  really  answered,  but  someone  else  signed  for  her,  so  I don't  even  know.  But
no  one's  ever  complained.  The  dogs  have  been  there.  I've  been  there  over  30  some  years.  I used  to
have  Irish  wolf  hounds,  so  way  bigger  than  Great  Dane's.  So,  no  one's  ever  said,  Deborah,  your
yard  stinks.  Deborah,  your  dogs  bark  all  day.  In  fact,  they  pull  up  and  they  say,  Deborah,  where's
your  dogs?  They're  looking  right  at  you.  So,  I don't  know  what  to  say.  Like,  even  the  pizza  delivery
guy  loves  my  yard.  So,  I hope  you  find  for  me . If  you  need  any  questions  answered  about  the
structures,  we  were  in  the  middle  of  getting  them  ready  to  fix  them  up  better,  stronger,  which
wouldn't  increase  the  footprint,  just  increase  the  wood  and  the  weight.  What  do  you  call  it?
Stabilization  or  something.  But  my  builder  is  here.   He  has  plans  or  whatever  to  show  you  if  you
need or I'm finished.
Mr.  Bramlette  - Yes,  ma'am.  You  said  your  builder  was  here  because  that  was  a , that  could  lead
in , because  I was  going  to  ask  you  who  your  builder  was  and  if  he  pulled  permits  in  order  to  build
these buildings.

Board of Zoning Appeals  Minutes          July  15,  202 5
P  a  g  e   | 10
Ms.  Sharpe  - He  can  answer  that,  but  they  did  pull  permits.  So  far,  we're  at  a  stop  because  we
were , I don't  think  they  pulled  them  timely,  but  we  were  in  the  middle  of  the  repair  from  his  other
company,  and  everything  was  stopped.  So  they  did  submit  the  permits,  but  I don't  know  the  status.
I think  this  is  all  holding  things  up.  I don't  know.  I don't  know  the  process.  Okay.  He's  here  if  you
would like.
Ms.  Shealy  - I was  just  going  to  say  that  we  do  have  an  application  for  permits  in-house  at  this
time,  but  initially,  there  was  no  permit  approved  or  issued  for  these  structures  when  they  were  put
in  place.  So,  since  that  time,  because  we  received  a  complaint,  they  have  been  applied  for,  and  it's
necessary for the board to approve this varian ce  in order for it to go any further to be approved.
Mr.  Bramlette  - Are  there  existing  permits  for  any  modifications  that  I believe  you  mentioned  that
you were doing some modifications?
Ms.  Sharpe  - The  buildings  were  never  finished  when  building  came  up  and  asked  for  the  permit,
and  I didn't  know  about  the  permit.  I had  my  builder,  so  they  talked  to  him.  We  weren't  finished
building. We were in the in the midst of trying to finish.
Mr. Bramlette - Ma'am, do you want your builder to talk to us?
Ms. Sharpe - If he can answer your questions.
Mr. Brown - Just for clarity, the kennel structure that's been up for how long again?
Ms. Sharpe - Since February.
Mr. Bell - As a follow-up to that, are all these your service dogs? Are you using them as a 
business?
Ms.  Sharpe  - No,  I don't  have  a  business.  I have  two  service  dogs.  Both  are  being  retired.   I'm  in
the  process  of  making  two  other  service  dogs  from  the  g reat  things.  You  have  to  let  them  get  a
certain  age,  and  it's  a  lot  of  work.  The  rest  are  pets.  I have  a  couple  of  bloodhounds.  I used  to  help
people find their dogs, but then I could walk better.
Mr. Bell - So this isn't a business that you're running?
Ms.  Sharpe  - I don't  have  a  business.  I just...  I spend  a  lot  of  money  on  my  dogs,  and  as  old  as  I
am,  I can  put  them  in  better  kennels.  It's  easier  for  me  for  them  to  be  bigger,  better,  so  I can  clean
them.  You  know  what  I mean?  Some  people  just  put  their  dogs  in  a  small  yard  and  little  dog  house,
and that's it. I don't want to do that.
Mr. Bell - Mr. Bramlette, did you have some questions for the builder?
Mr. Bramlette, Yes, could I have your name, sir?

Board of Zoning Appeals  Minutes          July  15,  202 5
P  a  g  e   | 11
Builder - Hey, my name is Cody McBrone . I'm the project manager for Transylvania Group.
Mr.  Bramlette  - The  question  I have  for  you,  obviously,  you've  been  building  in  Spotsylvania
County  for  a  while.  For  I've  been  with  those  companies  for  about  a  year.  Okay.  I'm  just  curious  as
to  why  you  would  build  in  an  area  that  is  not  permitted.  I mean,  the  codes  are  out  there  for
everybody,  and  they  haven't  changed  any  time  lately.  Why  would  you  build  something  closer  than
10  feet?  Now,  I can  understand  some  issues  in  the  back.  There's  not  a  lot  of  room,  and  there  were
buildings  that  are  right  up  tight.  But  along  the  side,  major  structure  that  close  to  the  line.  We  were
under the impression that it was a farm.
Mr.  McBrone , Builder  - Everything  that  had  come  up  in  the  records  was  that  it  was  a  farm.  The
other  reason  I have  is  that  there  was  an  existing  concrete  pad  where  the  dog  kennels  are  currently,
and we put the roofing structures over those concrete pads.
Mr.  Bramlette  - All  right.  Thank  you.  He  stated  he  is  curious  why  the  applicant  would  build  with
out  permits and less than 10 feet from property line.
Ms.  Shealy  - If  it  was  a  farm  for  an  agricultural  property  authority  that  is  putting  structures  on
there that are farm exempt, they still have to pull a permit and meet setbacks.
Mr. McBrone , Builder –  We were under the impression it was a farm.
A question was raised about the existing concrete pad and who poured it.
Ms.  Sharpe  - I had  another  company,  Garcia  Landscaping,  came  in  to  do  the...  I was  thinking  the
pea  gravel,  or  he  said  the  concrete  would  be  better.  So  we  ended  up  doing  concrete.  He  didn't  do
it  correctly.  Had  to  destroy  I had  to  destroy  all  of  it.  And  this  was  last  year,  and  then  had  to  redo
it, and it's still not right.
Mr. Bell- Have you looked into what the estimates would be to remove those structures?
Ms.  Sharpe  –  It ’s  going  to  be  crazy  expensive.  No.  It  was  what  I could  do  to  get  them  put  up  after
a  third  storm  demolishing.  The  one  in  22  demolished  everything,  all  the  kennels,  all  the  houses,
every  single  thing.  When  I had  them,  the  kennels  replaced.  Then  it  was  a  scramble  to  find  another
flooring,  another  roofing.  I went  to  everybody.  Short  car,  one  officer  told,  not  here,  but  canine  told
me,  get  carports,  and  I'm  just  thinking  how  ugly  that  would  be.  I'm  not  trying  to  be  ugly  in
Spotsylvania.  I'm  trying  to  be...  My  property  looked  nice.  I mean,  I wish  the  structure  was  shorter
in  height.  I'm  sorry  it's  a  little  close  to  the  sides,  but  only  one  person  on  her  side,  it's  just  two  feet.
And  she  never  said  in  her  letter  that,  “ N o,  I don't  want  it. ”  The  other  neighbor  didn't  respond,  and
he's been noticed several times.
Speaking in favor or opposition:
Montgomery  Wood,  Berkeley  District:   I believe  I'm  in  the  Berkeley  voting  district.  So,  looking  at
her  house  straight  on  from  the  road,  I'm  right  to  her  left,  where  the  dog  kennels  are  right  next  to

Board of Zoning Appeals  Minutes          July  15,  202 5
P  a  g  e   | 12
my  property.  Constant  dog  barking,  dog  poop  smell . I asked  her  to  keep  the  dogs  quiet.  She  says
my  dog  can  bark  24/7.  The  bees,  can't  go  outside  your  house  and  enjoy  the  property  with  bees  all
over  here.  Can't  go  outside  without  being  barked  at.  I have  a  really  nice  property.  Wanted  to  live
there,  but  got  it  on  the  market,  having  a  hard  time  selling  because  no  one  wants  to  live  next  to  that
dog  kennel  smell,  noise,  and  bees.  It's  really  adversely  affecting  my  property,  having  all  that  right
there  within  feet  of  my  property.  I almost  think  it's  a  nuisance  because  she's  told  me  that  she's  had
problems  with  the  old  lady  that  lived  there  for  years,  and  it  just  seems  like  she's  doing  this  to  be  a
nuisance,  which  with  all  that  land  she  had,  she  could  have  put  it  much  further  away  from  the
property  line,  but  she  chose  to  put  it  within  inches.  Then  she  has  a  fence  with  electric  fence  on  my
side.   So,  if  my  dog  decides  to  go  over,  my  dog  can  get  shocked,  going  anywhere  near  that  property.
To  me,  it's  just  everything  about  her  is  a  nuisance.  I'm  just  fed  up  with  it,  to  be  honest  with  you.
You can't enjoy my property with that going on next door. 
Unknown speaker - May I ask a question?
Mr. Wood - Yeah.
Unknown speaker -  How long have you lived at your property?
Mr.  Wood  - I bought  the  house  in  October.  Went  through  to  fix  it  up,  kept  it.  It's  an  old  1925
farmhouse.  Basically,  kept  it  the  same,  just  cleaned  it  up,  made  it  nicer.  But  it's  basically  the  same
house.  If  someone  wants  an  old  country  house,  they  can  come  in  and  basically  have  the  same  feel,
but more modern touch to it. 
Unknown speaker -  So, since October of 2024?
Mr. Wood - Yeah. That's when I think I bought it in October.
Unknown  speaker  - So,  you  were  aware  of  everything  that  was  on  that  property  when  you  moved?
Mr.  Wood  - The  kennel  was  new.  She  just  threw  that  up  in  April.  She  has  this  kennel.  Basically,  I
can't  even  get  into  it.  She  has  cameras  facing  my  front  door,  my  back  door.  It's  like  I'm  being
stalked  by  this  woman.  So,  Everything  about  this  is  obnoxious  to  me.  I'm  really  disgusted  by  the
whole  thing,  to  be  honest  with  you.  I think  it'd  be  a  nuisance,  there's  a  lawsuit  that  I may  have  to
pursue  to  remediate  this  if  you  guys  can't  do  this  for  me.  That's  where  I'm  headed  with  it  because
I'm  going  to  lose  money  just  dealing  with  her.  I don't  think  anybody  in  the  neighborhood  should
have to deal with that. That's all I got to say. Thanks. 
Mr.  Bell  - Any  members  of  the  Board  have  questions?   You  had  mentioned  that  there  was  an
electric fence?
Mr.  Wood  - She  has  a  6-foot  fence,  and  then  she  has  electric  fence  about  that  far  off  the  ground  on
my  side,  which  I guess  she  assumes  I'm  going  to  weed  whack  it  for  because  it's  so  close  to  my
property  line,  she  can't  maintain  it.  But  if  my  dog  or  anybody  who  goes  over  there,  we  have  an
opportunity  to  get  electrocuted  with  probably  20,000  volts,  which  I think  is  obnoxious  also.  But  I

Board of Zoning Appeals  Minutes          July  15,  202 5
P  a  g  e   | 13
understand  from  your  last  comment  then  that  the  fences  actually  own  her  property.  I don't  know.
I mean,  if  you  look  at  those  maps,  it  looks  like  that  building  is  on  my  property  with  that  line.  It's
so  close.  I haven't  surveyed  it,  but  if  she  wants  it  weed-wacked  or  to  look  good,  she  can't  do  it
because  she ’s  so  close  to  my  property,  she  would  have  to  be  on  my  property  to  maintain  it.
Everything's  just  so  close.  It's  within  that  fire  from  my  property  line,  which  is  just  too  close.  It's
too much.
A question was raised as to whether Mr. Wood has had a survey.
Mr. Wood –  There are pins on the property. If you look at the p ins, whether she moved them or 
didn't move them, I don't know that. But there are p ins that if they're correct, her buildings may 
be on her property. But I talked to the girl at the permit office, and she said, it looks like those 
buildings are on my property. I would have to go- w ait, you're probably going to have to get a 
formal survey, too. Yeah, so you'd have to have it surveyed But according to what your maps 
show, it looks like that could be actually on my property a little bit, which if it is, I want it 
moved.
Mr. Bramlette –  You said your property is up for sale, correct?
Mr. Wood –  Yes, but I don ’t think I can even sell  it to anybody.  No one will live there.  I put it 
up on the market three weeks ago.
Mr. Bramlette –  So the property would be surveyed at the time of sale? I don't know if that's 
required, but it's definitely wise. Do you always have your property survey, what they were 
buying and selling, so you don't have any issues?
Mr.  Wood  –  Maybe,  I don ’t know  the  Virginia  law.  There  are  p ins  there,  so  if  they  haven't  been
moved,  that's  been  surveyed  at  some  point.   As  far  as  their  cleanliness  of  their  kennels,  I've  taken
pictures  over  the  fence.  The  dogs  have  plenty  of  dog  poop  there.  They're  walking  in  it,  probably
laying  in  it.  It's  not  a  day's  worth  of  dog  poop.  It's  a  week's  worth  of  dog  poop.  I got  a  picture  on
my  phone.  I could  show  you  now,  but  I printed  it  out,  but  I actually  forgot  to  bring  it  with  me.  It's
just  it's  not  maintained  like  a  daily  thing.  It's  a  week's  worth  of  dog  poop  or  more.  I don't  know.
You  can  see  where  the  dogs  have  been  walking  in  it . But  it's  just , it's  a  lot  to  have  right  next  to
you , inches from your property line.
Mr. Bell –  Thank you sir.  Are there any other speakers?
Debbie  Hall,  Battlefield  District:   My  mother  resides  next  to  Ms.  Sharp.  She's  the  one  she  referred
to  as  the  elderly  neighbor.  My  mother  couldn't  be  here  tonight.   She  wrote  a  letter  to  the  Board.
She  is  in  a  rehab  from  a  recent  hip  replacement.  I don't  really  have  a  dog  in  the  fight,  but  I wanted
to  mention  a  couple  of  discrepancies,  I believe,  in  Ms.  Sharp's  submittal  of  information  to  you.
One  is  she  is  listed  on  the  website  as  a  breeder,  and  she  has  several  names  as  breeders.  One  is
Mama's  Dynamic  Euro  Great  Danes.  The  second  one  is  Mama's  Bodacious  Bloodhounds  and
Private  Rescue.  And  I believe  on  that  website,  she  lists  corgi  puppies  for  sale  currently,  three  males
and  five  females.  So,  she  apparently  is  running  a  breeding  operation.  She's  also  advertising  on

Board of Zoning Appeals  Minutes          July  15,  202 5
P  a  g  e   | 14
Marketplace.  And  currently,  there's  nothing  listed  there,  but  it  is  an  option  on  there  with  her  name.
I question  the  ability  of  the  contractor  as  well.  I don't  know  what  the  square  footages  of  the
buildings  are.  That  was  not  mentioned  tonight.  But  apparently,  since  he  needs  a  building  permit,  I
guess  they're  over  256  square  feet,  which  is  for  accessory  structures.  I know  Mr.  Cody  is  with
Transylvanian  Group.  I know  he's  a  Class  A  contractor.  He  has  ROC  license,  which  is  a  roofing
contractor.  A  roofing  contractor  cannot  build  new  structures.  Okay?  So  permitted  by  DPOR,  where
his  regulations  are  with  his  state  license,  he's  not  allowed  to  do  that.  He  has  to  have  even  a  home
improvement  contractor's  license,  or  he  has  to  have  a  commercial  improvement  contractor's
license.  I just  wanted  to  point  out  those  additional  comments.  Anyway,  I'm  in  the  B attlefield
D istrict.  My  mom  lives  there.  So  that's  all  I have  to  say.   She  wrote  up  that  information  that  you
have in that letter, and I initialed because she wasn't able to sign it.
Mr.  Bell  –  Thank  you.   Any  more  individuals  who ’d  like  to  speak  during  public  comment?   The
public hearing is closed.  Ms. Sharpe, you are granted your rebuttal period.
Ms.  Sharpe  - I would  like  to  clarify  the  neighbor  on  my  left  side,  they  came  up  here  and  said  all
those  nasty  things.  I met  him.  I said  hi  over  my  fence.  He  said  he  was  flipping  the  house.  He  got  it
himself.  He  built  it  between  hi m.  Sorry.  She  loves  you  for  some  (referring  to  service  dog) . But  he
built  it,  rehabbed  it . It  was  a  full  rehab.  He's  only  been,  the  few  times  we  talked,  very  nasty.  So,  I
just  leave  him  alone.  He  doesn't  cut  his  grass,  he  doesn't  maintain,  whatever.  So,  I just  leave  it
alone.  I just  stay  in  my  own  yard.  The  dog  kennels,  I used  to  clean  them  at  five  o'clock  in  the
morning  before  I had  to  log  in  at  seven.  Now  that  I'm  retired,  I clean  them  probably  about  6:30  or
7:00  when  I'm  up.  They're  cleaned  every  single  day.  Their  pools  are  washed.  They  have  pools  in
the  summer.  They're  handwashed  every  day.  The  dogs  are  washed  about  every  four  or  five  days.
They  have  feeders.  I don't  know  what  else  to...  It  does  not  stink.  Nobody  has  come  over,  even  right
up  on  the  kennel.  I was  like,  “ Do  you  smell  the  dogs? ”  Since  all  this  came  up  with  the  letter,  and
they're  like,  “ No. ”  It's , I don't  want  to  live  in  a  dog  poop  environment.  I keep  it  clean.  I want  my
dogs  clean.  Ferry  Farm  Animal  Clinic  manages  all  my  dogs.  She  will  tell  you  they're  the  healthiest
on  I'm  going  or  I'm  running  down  there  immediately,  and  they're  my  most  precious.  I don't
understand  the  obsession  with  me  with  the  other  neighbor.  She's  never  said  hi  in  30  years.  I just
don't  understand  that,  but  we  don't  have  enough  time  to  go  over  all  day.  I just  stay  in  my  yard.  I
enjoy  my  little  sanctuary,  and  if  people  don't  like  me,  that's  fine.  The  comment  of  the  first  neighbor
that  spoke  saying  that  I had  problems  with  a  lady,  she  made,  I don't  know,  hundreds  of  false  reports
to  animal  Control  and  the  police,  and  she  was  told,  “ Do  it  again,  you  go  to  jail. ”  Her  husband
actually  was  brought  before  Judge  Ledbetter  for  the  same  thing,  and  that  stopped  it  for  quite  a
while.  I don't  understand  the  false  reporting,  but  it's  something  they  had  the  police  over  there  all
the  time.  I just  left  it  alone.  Animal  Control  knows  me.  Tidings  was  a  Deputy,  he's  like,  I called
him  up.   I said,  “ Yep,  that  one  passed  away. ”  Now  the  wife's  doing  it.  He's  like,  “ You're  kidding. ”  I
think  he  was  a  lieutenant  at  the  time.  So,  he  just  came  back  and  made  her  stop.  He  told  me,  “ Don't
worry,  we're  not  coming  out.  Your  dogs  live  excellent,  better  than  us. ”  So,  I'm  telling  you,  you're
more  than  welcome  to  come  out.  Announced  or  otherwise,  you  will  see.  Electric  fences  in  A -2,
I'm  allowed  to  have  them  on  my  fence  being  inside  or  outside.  They're  well  up  off  the  ground,  so
you  can  weed  whack.  He's  just  not  doing  it  since  he  moved  in.  It's  been  weed  whacked  for  30
some  years.  He  let  the  grass  grow  2  to  3  feet,  whatever.  But  he  bought  the  house  to  flip  it.  He

Board of Zoning Appeals  Minutes          July  15,  202 5
P  a  g  e   | 15
couldn't  rent  it  out.  It's  a  very  small  old  house.  He  told  me  this  himself,  the  next  thing  you  know,
it's on the market.
Mr. Wood, previous speaker, commented that they cannot live there because of all of the issues 
raised during his discussion.
Mr. Bell encouraged citizens to keep their comments to themselves and to not speak out of turn.
Motion and vote:  On a motion by Mr. Bramlette , seconded by M s . Robinson , the BZA voted to
make a decision on this case, this evening.
Vote:
Ayes: 6 Winkler, Robinson , Bell, Thillmann , Brown and Bramlette
Nays: 0
Absent: 0
Abstain: 0
The motion passed 6 -0.
Mr.  Bramlette  discussed  the  nuisance  factor,  if  it  is  there  or  is  not  there  has  no  bearing  on  this
because  the  same  factors  would  be  in  a  case  if  the  proper  the  buildings  were  in  the  proper  location
five  feet  further  away.  So,  you  know,  that  doesn't  change  anything  as  far  as  code  goes  for  the
buildings  where  they're  located  and  so  forth.  Uh,  in  my  opinion.  All  right.  Um,  so,  yeah,  it,  you
know,  if  you're  living  next  to  it,  you  don't  like  dogs,  you  don't  like  that.  That's  fine.  Should  have
known  that  before  you  bought  the  property,  I guess,  but  beside  the  point.  Uh,  and  on  the  other
side,  if  I look  at  these  pictures  correctly,  uh,  there's  no  buildings.  That's  not  in  accordance  with
code on that side of the property. There's a driveway there, am I not, correct?
Ms. Shealy stated there is a lean to on the shed at the end of the driveway.
Mr.  Bramlette  - Does  it  have  a  major  impact  on  the  other  houses  in  the  neighborhood  and  so  forth?
Those  are  all  the  kind  of  things  you  have  to  take  into  consideration.  Uh,  but  I'm  just  saying  that,
you  know,  when  I look  at  the  picture,  there's  nothing  in  the  front  yard  any  further  than  the  buildings
that are to the right and the left. And so, uh, um, you know that that's my discussion.
Ms.  Robinson  - I would  also  like  for  you  to  keep  in  mind  the  handicap  issue  and  the  accessibility
to what she has on her property.
Ms.  Robinson  - I do  have  a  question.  Okay.  You  talk  about  contractors  and  what  they  can  build.
Correct  me  if  I'm  wrong,  any  of  you,  is  long  a s  long  as  you  go  by  C ounty  code,  you  don't  have  to
have  a  contractor  to  build  a  building.  You  can  have  C ounty  code  and  inspections,  and  you  can
subcontract  your  own  buildings.   She  wouldn't  even  have  to  have  that  gentleman  to  build  a
building.  If  she  were  able  to  build  a  building,  knew  C ounty  code,  had  the  proper  inspections,  she
could be a subcontractor herself.

Board of Zoning Appeals  Minutes          July  15,  202 5
P  a  g  e   | 16
Ms. Shealy - She could be the contractor herself if she wanted to as the homeowner.
Ms.  Robinson  - Exactly.  And  hire  him  to  do  the  work.  But  apparently,  I don't  know  if  that's  the
way  it's  been  applied  for.  I guess  if  he's  doing  the  work,  then  he  has  to  have  the  proper  license.  I'm
assuming  the  county  will  check  that  out.  It  also  depends  on  the  amount  of  work,  but  he's  a  Class
A contractor, so I'm assuming it's more than $1,000, which requires licensing. Thank you.
Mr.  Winkler  - Just  a  quick  question.  For  permits,  are  they  supposed  to  be  issued  before  construction
or  during  or  after?  Structure  requiring  permits,  do  they  have  to  be  obtained  before  the  actual
construction?
Ms. Shealy - Yes, they do. As far as the licensing, it's a building requirement. Zoning does not 
require that. 
Ms.  Carr  - Hi,  yes.  I'm  Rachel  Carr.  I haven't  met  you  yet,  Cindy.  Nice  to  meet  you.  I used  to
actually  work  with  the  Permit  Center  before  I became  part  of  the  zoning  team.  And  what  happens
is  when  a  permit  is  applied  for,  it  gets  sent  back  to  review  by  building  and  zoning  simultaneously.
And we both review our ordinances and codes. And then once we've approved the structures, the 
Permit Center then packages the application, and they review to make sure that the correct 
licenses are submitted through DPOR's website to make sure that they have the correct 
qualifications. And if not, at that point, the landowner is able to take responsibility through our 
landowner representative affidavit to be able to build it and subcontract it out under their own 
rights as a landowner.  Do you have questions about the permitting process? 
Ms. Robinson - No.
Ms. Carr - No? Okay
Motion and vote:  On a motion by Mr. Bramlette, seconded by Ms. Robinson, the BZA voted to
approve the variance for Ms. Sharpe    
Vote:
Ayes: 6 Winkler, Robinson, Bell, Thillmann , Brown and Bramlette
Nays: 0
Absent: 0
Abstain: 0
The motion passed 6-0.
Mr. Bell –  Ms. Shealy, are you ready to present the next case?
Ms. Shealy –  Yes, I am ready for the next case.  V25-0001: Mark and Melanie Ratcliff request  a 
variance to Section 23-7.4.4(a) of the Spotsylvania County Zoning Ordinance to allow for a 

Board of Zoning Appeals  Minutes          July  15,  202 5
P  a  g  e   | 17
family subdivision of a 9.2 acre  parcel in which one or both parcels would be less than the 5-acre
minimum lot size requirement in accordance with the River Protection Overlay District. The 
property is zoned Rural (Ru) and is in the River Protection Overlay District. The property is 
located at 0 Spotswood Furnace Road, Fredericksburg, VA. Tax parcel 5-A-2A. Chancellor 
Voting District.
Ms.  Shealy  - So,  I have  the  parcels  here.  T his  is  the  one  that's  in  question.  If  you  could  see  my
arrow  moving  there.  So,  parcel  5 -A -2  was  originally  14.5  acres.  So  that  was  these  two  together
before  they  were  created , and  was  the  parent  parcel  of  parcel  5 -A -2A1 . So,  this  was  all  one
property.  And  then  this  5-A-2A1  was  subdivided.  These  two  parcels  were  one  parcel  until  parcel
-2 A 1  was  created  as  a  5.3-acre  parcel  on  July  7th,  2020.  When  the  applicants  applied  to  split  off
parcel  -2 A,  they  were  told  by  the  case  planner  that  they  would  not  be  able  to  split  parcel  -2 A  any
further,  as  they  would  not  be  able  to  meet  the  five-acre  minimum  for  both  parcels.  The  Ra tcliff's
current  residence  is  4 C -1 -1 9,  and  that's  this  parcel  here.  So  that's  their  current  residence.  The
parcels  are  located  in  the  R iver  P rotection  O verlay.  That  ordinance  states  that  the  district  is  created
to  promote  public  health,  safety  and  welfare  by  protecting  valuable  river  resources  that  may
provide  drinking  water  and  recreation.  The  district  is  to  prevent  water  quality  degradation  from
pollutant  runoff  from  septic  fields,  construction  sites,  or  material  storage  areas.  This  district  is  in
addition  to  all  other  zoning  districts  where  it  is  applied.  And  that  is  the  reason  for  the  larger  lot
sizes  to  prevent  the  degradation  of  the  drinking  water,  etc.  So  let  me  get  to  the  next  slide  here.  The
three  lot  size  requirements  for  parcels  located  in  the  River  Protection  overlay  ar e,  if a  parcel  has  a
private  septic  system,  it  must  have  a  minimum  of  five  acres.  This  parcel  does  not  have  five  acres.
If  a  parcel  is  in  a  subdivision  served  by  a  private  septic  system  and  the  lots  are  clustered  to  achieve
a  minimum  of  50%  open  space  or  a  rural  preservation  area.   In  PRR  zoning,  a  150-foot  buffer  is
maintained  as  open  space  and  or  within  a  conservation  easement  along  waters  with  perennial  flow.
The  total  number  of  lots  may  not  exceed  a  density  of  one  dwelling  unit  per  five  gross  acres.  This
parcel  is  not  located  in  a  subdivision.  If  the  parcel  has  public  sewer,  it  is  regulated  by  the  underlying
zoning  district.  This  parcel  does  not  have  public  sewer  available.  The  Ratcliffe's  would  like  to
subdivide  the  9.2-acre  parcel  into  two  lots.  The  zoning  ordinance  does  not  permit  the  subdivision,
as  a  total  of  ten  acres  would  be  required  for  each  parcel  to  meet  the  five-acre  minimum  that's
required  in  the  River  Protection  Overlay  District.  If  the  variance  is  granted  and  the  parcel  is
subdivided,  the  resulting  two  parcels  cannot  both  contain  five  acres,  so  they  are  unable  to  meet  the
requirement  of  the  River  Protection  Overlay  District.  The  remedy  for  this  would  be  a  boundary
line  adjustment  with  the  adjacent  parcel  of  approximately  0.8  acres.  The  Ratcliffs  have  spoken  to
their  neighbor  and  they  will  not  agree  to  that  adjustment.  The  Ratcliffs  are  requesting  a  variance
to  avoid  this  law  that's  in  place.  Section  23 -7 .4 .4 (c) , stated  on  the  previous  slide  allows  for  two-
acre  parcels.  If  the  total  number  of  lots  does  not  exceed  one  dwelling  unit  per  five  gross  acres ,
e ven  with  all  three  parcels,  and  that  would  be  their  parcel  that  they  reside  on , then  the  parcel  that's
already  been  subdivided,  is  the  parcel  in  question  tonight.  E ven  with  all  three  of  those  parcels  at
17.79  acres,  the  Ratcliffs  would  not  be  able  to  reach  any  more  than  three  parcels  or  dwelling  units,
as  that  would  require  total  20  acres  for  the  properties  they  own.  In  conclusion,  this  is  not  a  unique
situation  as  there  are  1 ,411  existing  parcels  that  are  five  acres  or  less  in  the  River  Protection
Overlay  District . T he  Board  of  Supervisors  could  amend  the  zoning  ordinance,  remove  the  five-
acre  minimum  to  allow  for  those  1 ,411  parcels  to  be  less  than  five  acres.  Also,  all  newly  created
parcels  in  the  overlay  are  required  to  have  a  minimum  of  five  acres  with  a  private  septic  system.  I

Board of Zoning Appeals  Minutes          July  15,  202 5
P  a  g  e   | 18
spoke  with  the  C ounty's  E nvironmental  D epartment  about  this  requirement,  and  I was  told  that  the
department  would  not  recommend  that  in  the  future  the  Board  of  Supervisors  remove  or  decrease
the  five-acre  lot  requirement  for  the  following  reasons.   It  maintains  water  quality  by  minimizing
pollutant  discharge  from  stormwater  runoff,  which  the  Chesapeake  Bay  act  does  not  fully  address
on  its  own.  So,  this  would  be  in  addition  to  helping  that  Chesapeake  Bay  act.  The  C ounty  is  now
designated  as  a  phase  two  M S- 4  program,  and  the  larger  lots  help  limit  impervious  surface,  reduce
water  stormwater  runoff,  and  provide  natural  infiltration  areas  that  aid  in  filtering  pollutants  before
they  reach  the  river.  Smaller  lot  sizes  may  heighten  the  risk  of  runoff,  contamination  from
fertilizers,  pet  waste,  and  other  types  of  pollutants  that  compromise  water  quality.  Smaller  lots
may  also  have  long -term  negative  impacts  on  the  C ounty's  ability  to  meet  this  for  stormwater
permit requirements, protect drinking water, and mitigate septic system failures.
Mr. Bramlette - Can I ask you a question? All three parcels are owned by the same individual.
Ms.  Shealy  - Uh,  yes.  Um.  Actually,  yes.  So,  there's  the  residence  and  then  there's  2A,  -2A1 , I
think it's -2A1 that  is the one that was previously subdivided already. Right.
Mr. Bramlette - Thank you.
Ms.  Shealy  - Are  we  ready  to  continue?  Zoning  staff  recommends  the  denial  of  this  variance
request,  because  the  Ratcliff  situation  is  the  same  as  many  other  properties  in  the  River  Protection
Overlay  District,  and  because  the  overlay  district  serves  a  purpose  that  the  C ounty  Environmental
Codes  Department  considers  important,  the  decision  of  whether  to  change  the  ordinance  and  allow
greater  density  should  be  left  to  the  Board  of  Supervisors.  The  B oard  can  more  fully  investigate
the  matter  to  determine  whether  it  wants  the  River  Protection  Overlay  district  to  be  upheld.  In  fact,
this  request  appears  not  to  fall  within  the  B ZA 's  authority  to  grant . Virginia  Code  section  15 .2 -
2309  sets  out  the  powers  and  duties  of  the  B ZA  and  states  that  the  B ZA  is  only  authorized  to  grant
a  variance  request  when  it  meets  the  legal  requirements.  If  the  applicant  fails  to  meet  any  one
requirement,  then  the  B Z A  does  not  have  the  authority  to  grant  the  variance . T he  requester  has  to
prove  that  the  legal  requirements  are  met.  Those  requirements  are : The  strict  application  of  the
terms  of  the  ordinance  would  unreasonably  restrict  the  utilization  of  the  property,  or  that  the
granting  of  the  variance  would  alleviate  a  hardship  due  to  a  physical  condition  relating  to  the
property  or  improvements  thereon  at  the  time  of  the  effective  date  of  the  ordinance,  or  alleviate  a
hardship  by  granting  a  reasonable  modification  to  a  property  or  improvements  thereon  requested
by  or  on  behalf  of  a  person  with  a  disability.  And  these  are  the,  um,  these  are  the  items  that  you
have  to  look  at  as  a  board  in  order  to  approve  a  variance.  The  Ratcliff ’s  do  not  appear  to  meet  this
requirement.  The  ordinance  does  not  unreasonably  restrict  the  utilization  of  the  property.  It  restricts
every  property  in  the  overlay  district  in  exactly  the  same  manner.  There  is  nothing  unique  about
the  Ratcliff  situation  and  I am  unaware  of  any  disabilities.  Next  they  would  need  show  the  property
interests  for  which  the  variance  is  being  requested  was  acquired  in  good  faith,  and  any  hardship
was  not  created  by  the  applicant  for  the  variance.  The  Ratcliff ’s  are  unable  to  show  this  to  be  true.
The  River  Protection  Overlay  District  was  created  in  1995.  The  Ratcliff ’s  purchased  parcel  5- A -
2 A  on  March  16th,  2007,  which  was  three  days  after  the  recordation  of  the  subdivision  plat  that
created  by  H OA . The  subdivision  pl a t states  on  note  eight  that  the  property  is  in  the  R iver  and

Board of Zoning Appeals  Minutes          July  15,  202 5
P  a  g  e   | 19
R eservoir  O verlay  D istricts.  The  ordinance  requiring  a  five-acre  minimum  to  subdivide  in  the
River  Protection  Overlay  District,  and  that's  county  code  23 -7 .4 .4,  has  not  been  changed  since
2004.  So,  the  requirement  was  the  same  when  the  Ratcliff ’s  bought  the  property  and  the  restriction
was  noted  on  the  subdivision  plat.  Next  is  the  granting  of  the  variance  will  not  be  of  substantial
detriment  to  the  adjacent  property  or  nearby  properties  in  the  proximity  of  that  geographical  area.
I agree  that  it  would  not  do  that.  The  condition  or  situation  of  the  property  concerned  is  not  of  so
general  or  recurring  in  nature  as  to  make  reasonably  practicable,  practicable  the  formulation  of  a
general  regulation  to  be  adopted  as  an  amendment  to  the  ordinance.  This  situation  is  of  so  general
or  recurring  in  nature,  as  to  make  it  reasonable  for  the  Board  of  Supervisors  to  adopt  an  amendment
to  the  ordinance , if  they  choose  to  do  so.  The  granting  of  the  variance  does  not  result  in  a  use  that
is  not  otherwise  permitted  on  such  property,  or  a  change  in  the  zoning  classification  of  the  property.
The  relief  or  remedy  sought  by  the  variance  application  is  not  available  through  a  special  use
permit  or  the  process  that  is  authorized  in  the  ordinance  at  the  time  of  the  filing  of  the  variance
application.   So,  in  summary,  the  Ratcliff ’s  have  to  prove  that  they  meet  all  of  these  requirements
for  the  B Z A  to  grant  a  variance.  If  they  are  unable  to  prove  that  they  meet  all  of  these,  then  we
believe  the  Board  of  Zoning  Appeals  is  not  able  to  grant  the  variance  because  the  Ratcliff ’s  request
does  not  appear  to  meet  the  statutory  requirements  for  variance.  County  staff  recommends  denial.
Mr. Thillman n  inquired about the soil type.
Ms.  Shealy  –  I don ’t have  this  information.   We  don't  do  soil  testing.  We  don't  know.  I don't  have
that  information  but  maybe  environmental  may  have  it.  I'm  not  sure  what  department  might  have
that, but I don't have that. I will check into this.
Mr. Thillman n  - What is this white line going through the property? Is that an overhead line?
Ms. Shealy –  T ypically that ’s what they are.
Mr.  Bell  - Are  there  any  other  questions  from  the  board  for  Miss  Shealy?  There  are  no  other
questions  from  the  board.  Um,  the  applicant  can  come  up  and  present,  or  their  representative  can
present their case. And if you could state your name .
Applicant,  Ms.  Ratcliff:   Good  evening.  I'm  Melanie  Ratcliff.  This  is  my  husband,  Mark  Ratcliffe,
and  we  live  on  US  Ford  Road.  The  property  in  question  is  on  Spotswood  Furnace,  which  you  could
see  on  the  map.  So,  I know  that  Miss  Shealy  just  recommended  against  granting  us  a  variance.  It's
now  my  job  to  convince  you  otherwise.  I'm  assuming  since  we  were  granted  a  hearing,  that  you
most  definitely  have  the  authority  to  vote  in  our  favor.  Otherwise,  why  would  I receive  an  email
and  a  call  that  I could  present  our  case?  We  could  have  been  denied  a  hearing  and  we  wouldn't  be
here  tonight.  I know  the  C ounty  wouldn't  just  take  my  money  if  the  outcome  was  predetermined.
I hope  you  will  listen  to  my  arguments  and  not  rush  to  a  decision.  I implore  you  to  review  the  facts
carefully  and  not  make  a  hasty  vote.  Postpone  if  it  needs  to  further  review  the  facts  which  it  seems
you  all  are  going  to  have  30  days.  I'm  curious  to  know  if  any  of  you  have  driven  by  our  property.
They  say  a  picture  is  worth  a  thousand  words.  I have  a  few  things  to  help  you  visualize  the  situation.
So,  the  first  thing  I want  to  show , Miss  Shealy , is  the  video  of  my  parcel.  So,  this  is  starting  at  one
end  of  my  property.  All  of  that  is  my  road  frontage  onto  Spotswood  Furnace.  And  you  can  see  that

Board of Zoning Appeals  Minutes          July  15,  202 5
P  a  g  e   | 20
it  goes  a  long  way.  And  my  desire  is  to  have  three  home  sites.   There  was  clarification  about  the
zoning  category.  So  that  was  the  video.  That's  all  on  Spotswood  Furnace.  So  now  the  next  video
is  in  a  subdivision  called  Barrington,  which  is  about  a  little  over  two  miles.  And  you  can  count
there's  one , two,  three , four , five , s ix , s even.  That ’s  all  the  same  road  frontage  as  what  I have  on
my property.
Ms. Ratcliff displayed videos of her property showing the road frontage that she has on her 
property vs. the neighboring development.
Ms.  Ratcliff  - Yeah.  No  problem.  So  that  was  the  video.  That's  all  on  Spotswood  Furnace.  So  now
the  next  video  is  in  a  subdivision  called  Barrington,  which  is  about  a  little  over  two  miles.  And
you  can  count  there's  one , two,  three , four , five,  s ix , s even.  That  that's  all  the  same  road  frontage
as what I have on my property.
A question was raised about whether Ms. Ratcliff ’s property is part of the subdivision.
Ms.  Ratcliff  –  Our  property  is  not  in  a  subdivision.   The  second  video  is  Barrington.  Yes.  Um,  that
was  rezoned  to  PRR.  It  was  rezoned  to  PRR.  T o  the  third  video  is  another  subdivision  that's  in  the
R iver  Overlay  protection , called  R iver.  Glen.  Now,  this  is  the  same  amount  of  road  frontage  that  I
have.  And  again,  you  can  see  there  are  numerous  lots.   It's  the  River  O verlay  D istrict,  but  it  is  not
been  rezoned  for  that.  Okay,  now  there  are  certain  restrictions  within  the  that  rezoning,  but  okay,
getting  back  to  it.  So  that's  what  I have  as  far  as  road  frontage.  Now  let  me  show  you  what  I don't
have.  So,  the  pictures  I sent  you  tonigh t,  the  one  is,  uh,  like  Barrington  right  side.  So,  this  is  when
you're  coming  up  to  the  subdivision  that  you  just  saw  the  video  on,  where  they  have  the  two  acres.
This  is  going  up  to  the  entrance  of  the  subdivision.  Okay,  go  to  the  next  one,  which  would  be
another  Barrington.  Again,  that's  a  little  bit  closer  view , a ll  that  green  there.  And  then  there's  a
sign.  I don't  know  exactly  how  much  that  is,  but  I don't  have  anything  like  that  because  I don ’t,  I
don't  have  an  entrance  to  a  subdivision.  They  count  that  entrance  to  the  subdivision  lot  land,  as
well  as  common  parcels  as  part  of  their  density  to  meet  the  one  per  five  acres,  even  though  their
lots  are  only  two  acres.   Okay.  Go  to , if  you  don't  mind , there  should  be  one  that  says  River  Glen.
Yeah.  So,  this  is  a  street  view  looking  into  the  River  Glen  subdivision  off  of  River  R oad.  When
you  turn  in,  you  see  there  are  no  homes  on  the  left  or  the  right.  Once  you  go  into  where  you  see  the
treed  area,  that's  where  the  two -acre  lots  and  the  whole  subdivision  starts.  Again,  that  area  is  about
12  acres.  I don't  have  that  because  I'm  not  in  a  subdivision,  so  I don't  I don't  have  to  have  that.
Okay.  Um,  I think  there's  one  more  for  that  for  River  Glen.  No,  it  was  just  a  picture.  So  again,  so
this  is  showing  if  you're  turning  off  of  River  road,  that  is  the  entrance.  Again,  you  can  see  all  that
is  open  space  which  the  PRR  zonings  require  that  they  have  that.  So  let  me  now , s o  now  I'll  say
our  14.2  acres  has  2 ,082ft²  of  state-maintained  road  frontage.  Our  goal  is  three  lots  for  our  three
children.   There  have  been  two  large  parcels  granted  rezoning  to  PRR,  two  which  was  Barrington,
and  PRR -3 , which  is  River  Glen.  You'll  see  from  these  videos  the  same  amount  of  road  frontage
in  Barrington  equates  to  seven  home  sites  and  six  in  River  Glen.  The  PRR -2  zoning  requires  20%
green  space  and  allows  for  lot  sizes  of  two  acres,  while  the  PRR -3  requires  40%  green  space  and
the  same  two -acre  minimum  for  a  home  site.  In  reviewing  the  documents  submitted  and  recorded
in  the  C ounty,  I have  discovered  that  the  land  set  aside  for  the  actual  roads  into  those  subdivisions
is  used  to  calculate  the  density.  This  seems  unfair.  Strictly  looking  at  the  lots  and  their  acreage

Board of Zoning Appeals  Minutes          July  15,  202 5
P  a  g  e   | 21
doesn't  yield  a  1-to-5-acre  density.  I'm  not  able  to  apply  for  a  rezoning  because  I have  less  than  20
acres,  so  I actually  fall  within  that  little  sweet  spot  to  where  if  I had  20  acres  or  more,  I could
apply  for  a  rezoning.  But  I don't  have  20  acres,  so  I can't  apply  for  it.  I know  there  are  fees  required
to  rezone.  I would  gladly  pay  this.  As  we  all  know,  the  price  of  land  and  homes  is  outrageous  and
the  proffers  are  about  $ 6 ,600  per  lot.  There  are  over  1 ,800  lots  in  the  River  O verlay  D istrict,  and
over  71%  are  less  than  five  acres.  We  are  .8  acres  shy  of  meeting  that  five -acre  minimum.  It  seems
logical  to  grant  a  variance  that's  within  a  10%  amount.  In  our  case,  that  would  be  0.92  of  an  acre .
But  that's  more  than  what  I need.  I only  need  .8 . I was  told  by  the  C ounty  to  pursue  a  lot  line
adjustment,  but  then  told  I couldn't  get  that  because  the  lot  that  we  live  on  is  only  3.29  acres.  And
since  they  consider  that  nonconforming,  it  can't  be  more  nonconforming.  So,  I can't  do  that.  I was
told  also  to  pursue  the  .82  from  a  neighbor.  Only  one  side  of  the  property  has  someone  that  could
give  me  the  .82,  because  they  own  like  a  lot  of  land.  But  the  land  has  been  in  this  man's  family  for
over  a  hundred  years,  and  he  is , h e  won't  sell  it  to  me.  And  I'd  like  to  point  out  that  no  matter  how
you  slice  that  pie  up,  if  they  would  have  let  me  take  .82  from  mine,  or  bought  the  .82  from  this
gentleman  on  the  left,  it  would  still  only  yield  me  three  lots,  which  is  what  I need.  In  conclusion,
I would  ask  what  are  the  downsides  of  granting  me  a  variance?  I can't  think  of  any.  It  wouldn't
harm  my  neighbors  in  any  way.  Their  lots  are  less  than  five  acres  and  they've  known  my  children
for  most  of  their  lives.  There  are  a  few  landowners  in  the  River  O verlay  D istrict  that  could  ask  for
a  variance  in  a  similar  situation,  so  you  wouldn't  be  opening  up  a  can  of  worms.  There's  like  ten  or
less  a s  individuals  that  fall  between  that  less  than  20  acres,  but  more  that  would  need  a  small ,
would  need  a  variance  in  order  to  or  to  get  it  rezoned.  What  are  the  positives  gaining  a  source  of
revenue  for  the  C ounty  in  the  form  of  real  estate  taxes?  You  would  remedy  the  unfairness  of  the
situation  of  us  not  being  able  to  apply  for  a  rezoning  due  to  the  fact  that  we  own  less  than  20  acres,
because  I have  no  other  recourse  personally,  it  would  allow  us  to  have  our  three  children  live  near
us.  We  are  Spotsylvania  strong,  committed  to  this  community.  I work  at  the  Spotsylvania  County
Maintenance  Complex,  where  I have  been  the  bookkeeper  for  maintenance  and  construction  for
nine  years  under  director , Will  Smith , and  Rusty  Davis  and  Supervisor  Mike  Morris.  My  daughter,
who  is  here  tonight  is  a  Wilderness  Elementary  teacher,  my  oldest  son,  Mitchell,  is  a  firefighter  at
company  ten  here  in  the  county.  My  son  Mason  lives  in  New  York  City,  just  had  his  first  child,
my  first  grandchild  on  the  4th  of  July.  He  is  looking  to  settle  back  in  this  area  where  he  grew  up.
You  see  my  dilemma.  To  say  this  variance  is  extremely  important  to  my  family  is  an
understatement.  You  have  the  ability  to  make  us  very  happy.  Thank  you  for  your  time  and
consideration.
Mr.  Thillmann  - When  I drove  out  there,  the  reason  why  I asked  the  staff  the  question  about  the
white  spot  on  here,  because  I saw  those  overhead  lines.  The  high  power  lines?  Yes.  You  can't
build under those.
Ms. Ratcliff –  No.
Mr. Thillmann  - Okay. And it looks to me like that's about 45% of -2A , because you have the 
little triangle spot on top. The house isn't going to go there. You can't build under the re . So,  have 
you looked at where the subdivision would take place, how you'd split it up?

Board of Zoning Appeals  Minutes          July  15,  202 5
P  a  g  e   | 22
Ms.  Ratcliff  - Yes.  So,  we've  had  it  surveyed  and  we  have  had,  uh,  septic  fields  located  so  that  we
would have , if you are granted the variance, we would take the 9.2 and split that.
Mr. Thillman n  –  Y eah , but where would the houses go?
Ms. Ratcliff –  Our oldest son, Mitchell, will speak to that.
Mitchell  Ratcliff  - My  name  is  Mitchell  Ratcliffe,  for  the  record.  Oldest  son.  Um,  if  you  could  pull
it up on the computer, that would probably be the best illustration.
Ms.  Ratcliff  - So  the  area  that  of  the  lot  that  would  be  on  the  power  line , o bviously,  you  can't  do
anything  with  that.  So,  it  would  leave  about , uh , two  and  a  half,  about  two  and  a  half  acres  closest
to the power line. That would be a lot. And the house would be closer away from the power line.
Mr. Thillmann  - So one lot would be five acres, one would be 4.8.
Ms.  Ratcliff  - We  could  do  it  that , we  could  do  it  that  way.  Yeah,  exactly.  We  could,  we  would,
we  would  like  to  have  had  more,  uh,  m ake  it,  you  know,  like  a  six  and  a  three.  But  we're  happy
with doing.
Mr. Thillmann  –  That ’s what I was afraid of.
Ms.  Ratcliff  - Yeah,  but  we  don't  have  to  because  the  park  sites  are  there.  So,  if  we  split  it  evenly,
like  was  on  the  application  and  each  one  is,  I think  4.6  again,  that's  0.4  acres  on  each  of  them  that
are  lower  than  the  five.  Or , if  you  said  no,  you've  got  to  have  one  that's  five  acre  and  one  that's  4.2 ,
w e could do that , too. We can only get three.
Mr.  Thillmann  - Okay.  No,  I get  it.  So,  when  the  property  next  door  was  rezoned  to  the  planned
development district.
Ms. Ratcliff –  You mean the subdivisions, y eah.
Mr. Thillmann  –  Did they talk to you at all about incorporating and being part of the 
subdivision?
Ms.  Ratcliff  - No,  because  it's  off  of  River  R oad.  So  that  is  what  we  have . No,  I just  did
investigating  work  myself  to  find  out  how  many  lots  were  in  the  district , h ow , where  had  land
perhaps been rezoned.
Mr. Thillmann  - When it was zoned originally. Did they ever talk to you?
Ms. Ratcliff - No. N o, no. And Barrington was rezoned , I think , in like 2018 or 2020.
Mr. Thillmann  –  Wasn ’t that long ago.

Board of Zoning Appeals  Minutes          July  15,  202 5
P  a  g  e   | 23
Ms.  Ratcliff  - No,  I know  that's  what  I'm  saying.  And  I mean,  so  it  seems  like  if  you  have  a  lot  of
land,  I feel  like,  you  know,  I've  lived  in  this  county  for  almost  30  years  in  the  same  house,  and  I
love  it.  And  my  kids  love  it.  And  I feel  like,  what  a  great  thing  that  my  kids  want  to  be  near  me.
But  I've  told  them  it's  the  best  situation  because  I'm  on  one  street  and  they're  on  another.  I don't
even have to know when they come home. But , b ut I have three kids. I don't have two.
Mr.  Thillmann  - Right.  Okay.  Um,  so  if  we're  going  to  defer  decision  tonight,  and  I guess  we  are,
because  we  already  made  that  decision , w hen  you  come  back  next  time,  would  you  bring  us  a
show? Show us how you want to subdivide. 
Ms.  Ratcliff  - Yes,  sir.  W e  can't  do  anything  with  the  one  that  our  house  is  on  the  3.2.  We're  still
paying  on  our  house.  So  it,  y ou  know,  the  C ounty  had  said  we  might  could  do  a  lot  line  adjustment.
We  reached  out  to  the  mortgage  company,  but  then  the  C ounty  came  back  to  us  and  said  it's  already
considered  non-conforming,  you  know,  because  a  lot  of  these  lots  were  probably  put  on  the  books
before  the  R iver  O verlay  was  created,  so  they  wouldn't  let  ours  go.  So,  we  can't  take  any  from
ours.
Mr. Bramlette and Mr. Thillmann  inquired if they could be added to the adjacent subdivision.
Ms.  Ratcliff  - I don't  think  that  would  work  because  our  house  that  we  live  in  is  actually  lot  19  in
Mineral Springs forest.
Mr. Thillman n  –  O kay.
Ms.  Ra tcliff  - Yeah.  So  that  wouldn't  work.  So  that  it's  strictly  based  on  the  fact  that  we  own  the
nine  and  two  and  the  five,  which  is  14.2.  We're  point , we're  point  acre  shy.  And  if  you  look,  you
were  talking  about  making  a  precedent  or  whatever,  you  know,  there's  only  like  eight  people  of  all
the  lots  that  might  own  more  than  five,  but  less  than  20.  All  of  those  are  in  subdivisions  already.
You  know,  so , a nd  most  covenants  in  a  subdivision  say  you  can't  subdivide  it  further,  you  know,
or  whatever.  And , but  anywhere  else  in  the  C ounty,  a  two -acre  or  a  three -acre  is  for  a  family  where
for  me,  it's  not  because  it  says  I must  apply  by  the  R iver  O verlay.  And  initially  when  I was  talking
with  Beth,  I was  like,  well,  but  if  I could  get  it  rezoned  and  take  the  14.2  and  leave  50%  as  open
space,  that  would  still  give  me  7.1  or  7.2,  and  I could  get  three,  two,  eight  over  two  acre  lots,
which  is  what  the  other  subdivisions  do  when  they  got  it  rezoned  to  the  PRR -2  or  the  PRR -3 . But
then  Beth  came  back  and  told  me  that  I couldn't  do  that  because  it  still  reads  that  even  if  they  get
it  rezoned  and  they  are , they  still  have  to  meet  the  density  of  1  to  5.  Okay.  But  then  when  I
investigated  further  and  found  that  they  consider,  I understand  the  open  space  because  I could  do
open  space.  But  when  they  account,  there's  five  acres  in  Barrington  that  is  recorded , 5.412  acres
are  zoned  are  dedicated  to  the  streets  to  drive  in  the  subdivision  and  go  down.  To  me  that  that
seems  unfair  to  me  because  I don't  have,  I don't  have  that.  I don't  need  that.  I have  mine,  all  state-
maintained road.
Mr. Bramlette –  T he roads already there?

Board of Zoning Appeals  Minutes          July  15,  202 5
P  a  g  e   | 24
Ms. Ratcliff –  Yeah, it ’s there.
Mr.  Bramlette  - Yeah.  The  object  of  that  is  that  it  is  space  that  does  not  have  buildings  and  sewer
systems  and  so  forth.  So  that's , you  know,  it  doesn't  matter  if  it's  covered  in  grass  or  covered  in
blacktop, it's still open space that nothing is being built on. So that's the rationale for that, right?
Ms. Ratcliff - But when you go down and then you look and you see that the lots  are one right 
after the other, and there are only two -acre lots. I don't see how having that, even though at the 
very beginning of the subdivision you might have five acres. How is it having two -acre lots that 
have the septic systems right there? How is that preventing water quality degradation when I'm 
only .8  acres shy of having five acres ?
Mr  Thillman  - There's  a  Chesapeake  Bay  act  in  every  jurisdiction  in  the  Chesapeake  Bay.  Had  to
come  up  with  a  plan  on  how  they  were  going  to  accommodate  it.  So  that  included  Maryland,  D.C.,
Virginia.  Yes.  And  every  jurisdiction  came  up  with  their  own  way  of  infiltrating  water  into  the
soil  so  it  would  get  into  the  river,  and  cleaned  up.  This  was  one  way  Spotsylvania  did  it.  So , n ow
we have to live with the rules. The question is, does it make sense?
Ms.  Ratcliff:   I don't  think  it  makes  sense  because  I feel  like  it  is  discriminatory  to  me  as  a
landowner,  because  I could  meet  a  density  of,  I could  meet  an  open  space  requirement  and  then
get  two  acres,  but  I would  be  at  one.  I'd  be  at  one  house.  0.476  versus  1.5 , 1.476  on  each  of  my
lots.  And  I just  feel , I mean,  of  course  I want  you  to  vote  in  my  favor,  which  I think  you  can.  I'm
not  asking  for  a  large  variance.  It  seems  like  there  should , e very  rule  is  made  to  be  broken,  if  you
will, or you could within a small percentage, you know, say it's okay.
Mr.  Bramlette  - The  key  is  the  hardship.  And  hopefully  when  you  come  back,  you'll  have  a  better
statement about hardship.
Ms.  Ratcliff  - Well,  I don't  really  see  how  I'm  going  to  have  another  hardship.  And  that's  the  only
other  thing  I don't  understand  is , if  I don't  if  I don't  have  a  shot  to  get  it,  then  why  when  I turned  in
my  application,  then  did , why  am  I even  here?  If  I didn't  meet  any  of  those  requirements,  why  did ,
why am I here?
There was discussion regarding why Ms. Ratcliff was even able to submit an  application.
Mr. Bramlette:  As you saw, we have the ability to make a decision which is not in accordance 
with code.  Make a presentation to us, we ’ll listen.  You know, we ’re open, obviously, we are 
open. We will give you a fair hearing.
Mr. Bell –  Are there any more questions from the Board on this case?  Hearing none, thank you, 
M s . Ratcliff.  So, we should close the public hearing.
Ms. Mann –  Y ou are continuing the hearing until August 19, 2025.

Board of Zoning Appeals  Minutes          July  15,  202 5
P  a  g  e   | 25
Mr. Bell –  We are going to continue the hearing until August 19, 2025.  Ms. Shealy, would you 
present the next case?
Ms.  Shealy  –  The  next  case  is  A24-0002:  Mary  Theresa  and  Elbert  Jay  Ramsey  request  an  appeal
to  the  Zoning  Administrator ’s  notice  of  violation  of  Sec.  23-4.1.1  and  23-6.24.3  pursuant  to
Section  15.2-2311  of  the  Code  of  Virginia  and  Section  23-3.6.1(a)  of  the  Spotsylvania  County
Zoning  Ordinance.  A  notice  of  violation  was  issued  for  unlawfully  operating  a  contractor ’s  office
and  shop  without  a  special  use  permit  in  the  Rural  (Ru)  District.   The  property  is  approximately
6.66  acres  and  located  at  13614  Black  Meadow  Road,  Spotsylvania,  VA  22553.  Tax  parcel  9-A-
3B. Chancellor Voting District. 
Ms.  Shealy  - Just  to  let  you  know,  Scott  Lamolinara  is  here  tonight  as  the  code  enforcement  officer
for  this  case , in  case  you  should  have  any  questions  regarding  the  violation  given.  Virginia  C ode
15 .2 -2309  gives  the  Board  of  Zoning  Appeals  the  directive  for  the  basis  of  their  decision  for
approval  or  denial.  That  being  said , the  decision  on  such  appeal  shall  be  based  on  the  B oard's
judgment  of  whether  the  administrative  officer  was  correct.  The  determination  of  the
administrative  officer  shall  be  presumed  to  be  correct  in  order  to  do  so.  The  B oard  shall  consider
the  purpose  and  intent  of  any  applicable  ordinances,  laws  and  regulations  in  making  its  decisions.
So  why  was  this  notice  of  violation  issued?  A  complaint  was  received  that  there  was  an  apartment
located  in  the  detached , agricultural  structure  on  the  p roperty.  For  the  sake  of  full  disclosure,  a
current  Spotsylvania  County  employee  made  the  complaint , but  was  not  an  employee  of  the
C ounty  at  the  time  of  the  complaint.  The  code  enforcement  officer  was  permitted  to  go  into  the
structure  by  the  owners  of  the  property,  the  Ramse y ’s.  They  were  very  forthcoming  with
information  regarding  the  business  and  the  operation  taking  place  on  the  property.  The  owners
also  stated  that  they  would  not  use  the  apartment  as  a  residence  any  longer.  While  in  the  shop
portion  of  the  structure,  the  code  e nforcement  officer  saw  evidence  that  it  was  being  used  as  a
C ontractor's  O ffice  and  S hop,  as  there  was  storage  of  supplies  for  the  business  located  in  the  loft
above  the  apartment , m aterials  for  the  maintenance  and  repair  of  trucks  used  for  the  business,  and
tools  and  such  u sed  for  the  business  under  the  lean -to  attached  to  the  structure.  There  were  multiple
bales  of  straw  in  a  meeting  with  the  zoning  manager  and  the  code  enforcement  officer.  The
Ramsey ’s  were  told  a  special  use  permit  is  required  in  order  to  operate  a  C ontractor's  O ffice  on  the
property.  Um,  the  owners  had  a  pre-application  meeting  with  the  C ounty  prior  to  filing  an
application  for  the  special  use  permit,  but  did  not  actually  file  the  application.  They  retained  legal
counsel  and  applied  for  the  appeal  w e  are  hearing  tonight.  The  definition  of  a  C ontractor's  O ffice ,
of  C ontractors  O ffices  and  S hops  means  establishments  for  the  installation  and  servicing  of  such
items  as  air  conditioners,  electrical  equipment,  flooring,  heating,  painting,  plumbing,  roofing,
tiling  and  ventilating , a n  establishment  for  the  planting  and  maintenance  of  gardens,  grounds  and
yards  such  as  landscape  contractors  and  lawn  maintenance  services.  Um,  this  is  actually  a  business
that  does  hydroseeding,  so  it  falls  under  that  category.  This  aerial  from  the  county  GIS  system  is
of  the  two  properties  that  will  be  discussed  this  evening.   So,  let's  take  a  minute  to  talk  about  what
each  property  is.  These  properties  were  originally  one  property.  So,  we're  talking  about  these  two
right  here.  It's  going  to  be  -620  and  -614.  And  they  were  originally  one  property  and  that  parcel
was  divided  into  two  parcels . T he  property  highlighted  in  blue , y ou  can't  tell  too  much,  but  this  is
blue , is  13620  Black  Meadow  Road.  And  it's  where  the  home  occupation  that  will  be  discussed
was  located  when  Michael  Gentry,  the  previous  owner,  lived  in  the  residence  on  the  property.  The

Board of Zoning Appeals  Minutes          July  15,  202 5
P  a  g  e   | 26
property  highlighted  in  pink  is  13614  Black  Meadow  Road  and  is  where  Greenway  Hydro s eeding,
owned  by  Michael  Gentry,  is  operating,  currently  without  a  permit.  This  is  also  where  the
complaint  for  having  a  non-permitted  apartment  was  located.  So,  the  apartment  was  in  this
structure  here.  Okay.  The  business  located  at  13614  Black  Meadow  Road , that  was  the  pink  one
and  on  the  previous  slide  is  Greenway  Hydr o seeding.  The  owner  is  Michael  Gentry,  who  is  also
the  prior  owner  of  the  property.   Mr.  Gentry  is  now  leasing  the  property  from  the  Ramsey s , who
are  the  current  owners , and  that's  Greenway  H ydros eeding  is  leasing  it,  and  anybody  involved  in
that  business . Michael  Gentry  was  also  the  owner  of  13620  Black  Meadow  Road,  which  is  the
location  of  the  residence  that  was  shown  in  blue  on  the  previous  screen.  And  that  was  prior  to  the
Ramsey ’s  buying  the  property . W hen  Mr.  Gentry  was  the  owner  of  13620,  he  obtained  a  home
occupation  permit  that  was  approved  for  a  home  office  only.  The  definition  of  a  home  occupation
is  low  impact,  home -based  business  activities  for  individuals  within  any  dwelling,  such  as,  but  not
limited  to  home  office,  artist  space,  home  crafts,  internet  sales  completely  contained  within  a
residential  dwelling  that  chiefly  serves  as  a  place  of  residence , s ubject  to  development  standards
as  established  in  C hapter  23,  Division  four , w hich  are  home  occupations.  Zoning  Ordinance
Section  23 -5. 4 .2 .1  states , “ A  home  occupation  shall  be  conducted  within  the  dwelling,  which  is
the  bona  fide  residence  of  the  principal  practitioner  or  in  an  accessory  building  thereto,  which  is
normally  associated  with  a  residential  use. ”  This  section  of  the  ordinance  requires  that  the  owner
of  the  business  live  in  the  house.  When  Michael  Gentry  sold  the  house  at  13620  Black  Meadow
Road , the  home  occupation  was  no  longer  permitted  as  he  was  not  the  bona  fide  resident  of  the
property.  The  new  owner  could  apply  for  a  home  occupation  permit.  The  Rams e y ’s,  who  were  the
new  owners,  did  not  apply  for  any  permits  after  they  purchase  the  property,  so  there's  no  permits
on  that  property  right  now.  It  also  states  that  if  the  business  is  located  in  an  accessory  building  on
the  property,  it  must  be  a  building  that  would  normally  have  a  residential  use,  such  as  a  shed  or
garage  within  an  office.  The  structure  that's  being  used  for  operating  G reenway  H ydroseeding  is
not  a  structure  normally  associated  with  a  residential  use.  It  was  permitted  as  an  agricultural
structure  before  the  house  was  built  at  13620  Black  Meadow  Road.  There  has  never  been  a  permit
obtained  for  this  business  to  operate  at  this  location.  A  special  use  permit  would  be  required , again ,
for  a  C ontractor's  O ffice  and  S hops.  So,  what  are  the  requirements  for  home  occupation  and  could
they  be  met  today?   The  home  occupation  that  was  issued , s o,  home  occupation  shall  be  conducted
within  the  dwelling,  which  is  the  bona  fide  residence  of  the  principal  practitioner,  or  in  an
accessory  building  thereto,  which  is  normally  associated  with  a  residential  use.  No  stock  and  trade
shall  be  displayed  or  sold  on  the  premises.  There  shall  be  no  exterior  evidence  that  a  property  is
used  in  any  other  way  than  for  a  dwelling.  No  mechanical  or  electrical  equipment  shall  be
employed  other  than  machinery,  machinery,  or  equipment  customarily  found  in  the  home
associated  with  a  hobby  or  avocation.  No  outside  display  of  goods  or  outside  storage  of  equipment
or  materials  used  in  the  home  occupation  shall  be  permitted.  No  employees,  whether  paid  or  not,
for  their  services,  except  persons  who  use  the  dwelling  as  their  bona  fide  residence,  shall  be
involved  in  the  home  occupation  on  that  property.  No  sign  or  other  form  of  exterior  indication  or
advertisement  of  the  home  occupation  shall  be  permitted.  There  shall  be  no  customers  or  clients
accessing  the  location.  No  more  than  two  service  vehicles  shall  be  parked  on  the  property  at  any
one  time.   Occupants  of  the  residence  may  park  their  vehicles.  Also,  no  retail  or  wholesale  activity
may  be  conducted  on  the  property  except  by  phone,  mail,  internet  or  other  electronic  medium.
Other  forms  or  transactions  must  be  conducted  offsite  at  a  permitted  location.  So  let  me  just  look
here for a minute. So, the home occupation that was issued again to Mr. Gentry for a home office

Board of Zoning Appeals  Minutes          July  15,  202 5
P  a  g  e   | 27
would  have  been  in  violation  of  the  following  requirements  if  Greenway  Hydroseeding  was  being
operated  as  it  is  now,  the  business  is  not  being  operated  in  the  residence.  The  structure  where  it's
being  operated  was  permitted  as  an  agricultural  structure  for  agricultural  use,  not  for  residential
use  as  required.  There  is  exterior  evidence  that  the  property  is  being  used  for  a  commercial  use,
not  residential.  There  is  outside  storage  of  straw  and  equipment.  There  is  also  truck  traffic  and
employees  entering  and  leaving  the  property  during  work  hours.  The  equipment  stored  on  the
property  is  not  customarily  found  in  the  home.  There  are  employees , other  than  the  residents  of
the  property,  operating  equipment  and  vehicles  for  the  business.   There  is  currently  more  than  two
service  vehicles  at  any  one  time  on  the  property  being  used  for  the  business,  as  observed  by  the
zoning  c ode  e nforcement  officer.  So  let  me  now  clear  up  the  issues  that  were  raised  by  the
applicants  an d  their  application  narrative , the  C ounty  acceptance  of  taxes.  The  Ramsey ’s  argue
that  the  B Z A  should  consider  the  fact  that  the  C ounty  issued  Greenway  H ydroseeding  a  business
license  as  the  C ounty's  approval  of  the  use  of  the  property  as  a  C ontractor's  O ffice,  as  opposed  to
a  home  occupation.  The  problem  with  this  is  that  business  licenses  are  issued  by  the  office  of  the
Commissioner  of  Revenue,  which  is  a  separate  constitutional  office,  and  that  office  does  not  reflect
determinations  by  the  Z oning  D epartment.  The  Commissioner  of  Revenue  bases  its  requirement
for  licensing  on  the  number  of  gross  receipts.  That  amount  is  currently  $2  million.  If  a  business
does  not  have  $2  million  or  more  or  more  in  gross  receipts,  then  they  receive  an  exempt  business
license,  but  they  are  still  responsible  for  paying  taxes  on  business  tangible  property.  Again,  the
payment  of  those  taxes  does  not  determine  the  zoning  use  of  the  property,  nor  does  it  take  the
place  of  zoning  permit  for  the  business.   Lack  of  county  action  at  subdivision.  The  structure  being
used  for  the  business  on  13614  Black  Meadow  Drive  was  approved  as  an  agricultural  pole  building
in  2000.  At  the  time  of  that  approval,  addresses  13614  and  13620  were  one  parcel.  The  structure
was  approved  as  the  ordinance  allows  for  agricultural  structures  being  used  for  agricultural  uses
such  as  tractor  storage  for  farming  use  or  housing  of  agricultural  animals  on  a  property  that  has
rural  zoning.  In  that  case,  they  would  not  be  an  accessory  structure,  but  a  primary  structure  for  the
primary  use  of  agriculture.  When  the  property  was  subdivided  in  2010,  the  residen ce  had  already
been  built  on  the  property  in  2002,  and  the  home  occupation  had  been  approved  in  2003.  The
Z oning  O ffice  reviewed  the  application  for  subdivision  to  ensure  that  all  structures  would  meet
setbacks  from  the  new  property  lines,  and  would  have  verified  that  the  agricultural  structure  could
be  on  its  own  property,  as  it  was  approved  for  agricultural  use.  There  was  no  permit  allowing
G reenway  H ydroseeding  being  on  that  property,  and  a  home  occupation  was  located  in  the
residence only as a home office.
There  was  no  request  for  the  agricultural  structure  to  be  included  as  part  of  that  home  occupation
permit.  Again,  it  was  a  home  office  use  only  on  the  permit.  That's  how  it  was  permitted.  Lack  of
county  action  before  now , that's  another  question  that's  being  raised  by  the  applicant.  The
Ramsey ’s  also  suggest  that  because  the  C ounty  has  not  caught  the  violation  before  now,  the  B Z A
should  continue  to  allow  them  to  violate  the  zoning  laws.  The  problem  with  this  argument  is  that
it  doesn't  reflect  or  understand  the  C ounty's  enforcement  model.  The  C ounty  enforces  its  zoning
regulations  on  a  complaint  made  basis.  It  is  not  proactive.  The  C ounty  does  not  have  the  staff  to
inspect  every  property  every  year  to  determine  whether  the  owner  is  complying  with  the  zoning
regulations.  That  type  of  system  would  cost  a  great  deal  of  money  and  result  in  higher  taxes  to
cover  the  costs,  or  much  higher  fees  for  the  permits.  The  C ounty  investigates  complaints  and  in
the  course  of  that  investigation,  looks  for  any  other  violations  on  that  property.  In  this  case,  while

Board of Zoning Appeals  Minutes          July  15,  202 5
P  a  g  e   | 28
investigating  the  complaint  of  a  n on-permitted  apartment,  it  was  very  apparent  that  there  was  a
business  operating.   After  further  research  of  the  complaint,  the  code  enforcement  officer  noted
that  there  was  no  permit  for  a  business  on  the  property.  The  fact  that  Greenway  Hydroseeding  has
violated  zoning  regulations  for  years  does  not  justify  it  continuing  to  violate  the  zoning  regulations
in  the  future.  It  would  be  like  being  caught  speeding.  Um,  not  being  caught  speeding  for  20  years
and  saying  that  because  you  hadn't  been  caught,  you  can  continue  speeding.  The  Gentry ’s  and
Ramsey ’s  had  just  not  been  caught  until  now.  The  Gentry's  and  Ramsey ’s  were  not  on  notice  of
violation.  The  Gentry's  had  the  permit  granting  only  home  occupation.  The  Ramsey ’s  had  a  duty
to  conduct  a  due  diligence  investigation  before  buying  the  properties,  which  should  and  could  have
included  calling  the  zoning  office  for  confirmation  of  legal  business  and  or  asking  for  zoning
determination  of  whether  the  business  complied  with  zoning.  The  Ramsey ’s  and  Gentry's  cannot
fail  to  meet  their  obligations  and  then  blame  the  C ounty  for  their  failure.  And  I will  tell  you  that
we  get  a  lot  of  phone  calls  from  people  asking  if  their  use  is  permitted  on  a  property  before
purchase.   That's  a  common  occurrence.  And  we  also  do  confirmation  letters  frequently  to  let
people  know  if  a  use  is  permitted  or  not.  T he  C ounty's  numerous  approvals  and  affirmations  of
lawfulness.  The  C ounty  provides  approval  and  affirmation  in  the  form  of  a  zoning  determination
letter,  which  is  authorized  under  Virginia  law  as  the  way  the  county  determines  that  a  use  is  lawful.
Neither  the  Gentry's  nor  the  Ramsey ’s  ever,  ever  requested  a  zoning  determination  letter.  Now
they're  arguing  that  because  the  C ounty  did  not  let  them  know  some  other  way  that  the  use  violated
zoning  regulations,  they  should  be  allowed  to  continue  to  violate  the  code.  That  argument  is
incorrect.  In  conclusion,  staff  recommends  denial  of  this  appeal  as  there  are  no  active  permits  for
a  commercial  use  on  the  property  at  13614  Black  Meadow  Road.  There  has  not  been  a  home
occupation  permit  at  the  residential  property , 13620  Black  Meadow  Road , s ince  the  property  was
purchased  by  the  Ramsey ’s  in  2022,  and  they  are  now  the  bona  fide  residents  of  the  property.  While
the  appellants  may  argue  that  the  Gentry's  had  a  home  occupation  permit  and  it  should  be  allowed
to  continue , they  were  operating  the  Greenway  hydr o seeding  in  violation  of  that  permit  that  they
had  for  a  home  occupation,  and  the  development  standards  and  use  requirements.  The  structure,
located  on  13614  Black  Meadow  Road,  only  has  a  building  permit  for  an  agricultural  structure.
There  has  never  been  a  use  permit  of  any  kind  for  this  property.  The  notice  of  violation  for  failure
to  obtain  permits  and  approval  for  a  special  use  permit  for  C ontractor's  O ffice  and  S hops  was
correctly  issued,  and  the  Spotsylvania  County  Zoning  Ordinance  supports  this.  There  are  currently
no  permits  for  the  operation  of  any  business  on  the  property.  Therefore,  a  special  use  permit  for  a
C ontractor's  O ffice  and  S hop  is  correct,  and  that  is  grounds  for  denial  by  the  Board  of  Zoning
Appeals.   So,  in  conclusion,  staff  recommends  denial  of  this.  Oh , I'm  sorry.  I already  did  that  one.
I went  back.  Um,  so  the  Virginia  S tate  C ode  relies  on  the  Board  of  Zoning  Appeals  judgment  as
to  whether  the  administrative  officer  was  correct.  The  B oard  must  also  consider  the  purpose  and
intent  of  the  applicable  ordinances,  laws  and  regulations.  In  making  its  decision,  the  Zoning  Code
Enforcement  Officer  issued  a  Notice  of  Violation  of  Zoning  Ordinance,  Section  23 -4 .1 .1,  in  the
definition  section  and  section  23 -6 .24 .3 , which  lists  permitted  special  uses  required.  The  officer
was  correct  in  his  issuance  of  a  notice  of  violation  for  this  property.  There  are  no  permits  on  this
property  for  a  business  to  be  operated,  and  a  special  use  permit  for  a  C ontractor's  O ffice  and  S hops
would  remedy  the  violation.  Approval  of  this  appeal  would  usurp  the  Board  of  Supervisors
authority  to  approve  or  deny  the  application  for  a  special  use  permit,  and  to  set  conditions  of
approval  for  the  property.  This  is  actually  a  very  simple  case.  The  only  permit  for  a  business  issued
on either of these properties was a home occupation on the residential property.

Board of Zoning Appeals  Minutes          July  15,  202 5
P  a  g  e   | 29
Mr. Bramlette - The last , the last sentence there , and your last statement, is there an application 
before the Board of Supervisors?
Ms.  Shealy  - No,  sir.  They,  the  Ramsey ’s,  came  in  for  a  special  use  pre-application,  which  we
hold  a  technical  review  committee  meeting  every  week.  And  prior  to  somebody  actually  applying
for  the  special  use  permit , they  can  come  in  and  talk  to  the  technical  review  committee.  That  was
done.  But  then  after  that,  the  Ramsey ’s  did  not  file  the  special  use  permit,  but  they  did  get  legal
counsel in order to go through this appeal process.
Mr. Thillmann  - So can I follow up on that?
Ms. Shealy –  Yes.
Mr.  Thillmann  - Were  there  conditions  that  the  staff  recommended  to  the  Ramsey ’s  at  the  time
that the Ramsey ’s thought they couldn't meet?
Ms.  Shealy  - So  in  the  p re -app  meeting,  we  would  go  through  what  was  required  as  part  of  the
development  for  a  business  on  that  property.  So,  it  could  have  been  things  like  number  of  parking
spaces  provided,  um,  any  paving  that  would  need  to  be  required,  anything  of  that  nature.  It  would
even  also  involve  like  if  fire  and  rescue  could  get  through,  you  know,  with  tree  coverage  as  it  is,
things  like  that.  So  that  was  discussed  as  part  of  what  would  need  to  be  done  just  for  developing
the property.
Mr. Bell - During that discussion, was there any discussion about the relative cost of a special 
use permit like that?
Ms. Shealy - I would assume that they would know, the cost of a special use permit.
Mr.  Bell  - Thank  you.  Um,  you  had  mentioned  that  the  Ramsey's  a pplied  for  it  or  didn't  apply  for
a permit? Um, would it that's the current owners. Would it make sense for them to do so?
Ms. Shealy - In order to run that business? They would. The C ounty requires them to have a 
permit.
Mr. Bell - The Rams e y ’s or the Gentry's ?
Ms. Shealy - The Rams e y ’s, because they are the current owners, so it falls on them. So in order 
for that business to operate there, they would need a permit and that would have to begin with a 
special use permit issued by the Board of Supervisors.
Ms.  Robinson  - Do  you  know  if  this  business  was  currently  in  Spotsylvania  prior  to  being  at  this
address?

Board of Zoning Appeals  Minutes          July  15,  202 5
P  a  g  e   | 30
Ms.  Shealy  - Yes.  It  was.  It  was  actually  I believe  it  was  13615.  I believe  it  was  actually , a s  far  as
I know,  it  was  on  Black  Meadow  Road.  But  I believe  that  that  was  also,  um,  a  home  occupation  or
home  enterprise.  I believe  it  was  in  your  packets.  All  the  permits  were  there.  So,  it  was  permitted
at  one  time  on  a  different  property.  And  then  it  was  moved.  My  understanding  is  that  when  they
purchased  the  properties,  the  -614  and  -620  properties,  it  was  moved  to  that  agricultural  structure.
Ms. Robinson - So you have to have a new permit every time you move to a different property
Ms. Shealy - Yes, it goes with the property.
Ms. Robinson –  T hank you.
Mr.  Bramlette  - So  if  G entry  moves  from  that  piece  of  property,  then  this  thing  is  this  whole  issue
is dead.
Ms.  Shealy  - So  the  hydroseeding  business  is  there  a nd , if  the  hydroseeding  business  moves  off  of
the  property,  then  it's  dead.  Uh,  my  understanding  is  that  Mr.  Gentry  is  part  of  that  Greenway
Hydroseeding  company.  Um,  but  he's  no  longer  an  owner.  So  even  if  they  go  forward,  if  the
Ramsey ’s  go  forward  with  a  special  use  permit,  that  is  for  a  contractor's  office.  So  that  would  allow
that  property,  whoever  have  to  operate  a  contractor's  office.  If  it  was  G reenway  H ydroseeding  or
landscaping  services,  they  could,  you  know,  still  operate  that  as  C ontractor's  O ffice.  It's  not
specifically for that business. It's for a C ontractor's O ffice.
Mr. Brown  –  so question, without the special use permit, the Ramsey ’s are no longer able to 
operate on that property or is there a timeline if they submit the application for the permit, um 
that they could continue to operate.
Ms.  Shealy  - So  I will  say  that  with  the  violation,  we  have  extended  that  time  frame,  I believe
several  times,  several  times,  um,  in  order  for  them  to  pursue  a  special  use  permit.  But  they  did  not
go  forward  with  that.  Um,  I believe  that  instead,  they're  coming  to  you  to  allow  them  to  continue
to operate without a permit is essentially what it is.
Mr. Brown –  T hank you.
Mr. Scott Lamolinara was introduced to the Board of Zoning Appeals.
Mr.  Leming  - Good  evening,  Mr.  Chairman,  and  members  of  the  Board  Of  Zoning  Appeals.  I'm
Clark  Leming . I'm  here  on  behalf  of  the  applicant.  Um,  you  guys  have  been  sitting  there  a  long
time  and  you  already  know  I'm  a  bit  long  winded.  I don't  know  whether  you  want  to  break,  but,
um,  we  do  have  a  completely  different  story  to  tell  you.  And  yes,  this  is  a  simple  case,  and  we're
going  to  explain  to  you  why  virtually  everything  the  zoning  administrator  has  shared  with  you  is
simply  incorrect  in  these  circumstances.  Now,  before  I, if  you  if  you  want  to  go  on  what  I do  want

Board of Zoning Appeals  Minutes          July  15,  202 5
P  a  g  e   | 31
to  do  and  understand,  I know  that  you're  going  to  give  me  a  fair  hearing  and  but  we  do  have  a record
here.  And  so,  I do  want  to  establish  a,  a  couple  of  things  before  I get  started  for  the  record.  And
then  I have  some  handouts  for  you.  And  so,  we'll  just  see.  I was  hoping  you'd  take  a  break  and
then  I can  get  organized  better.  All  right,  here  are  the , h ere  are  the  things  that  I do  want  to  point
out.   And  it  goes  back  to  our  prior  discussion.  And  I know  you've  already  voted.  You're  going  to
hold  this  over.  Um,  I did  look  through  your  bylaws  and  through  S tate  C ode.  Um,  I do  not  see
specific  authority  for  that  in  either  location.  Now,  I'm  not  going  to  stand  here  and  tell  you  that
under  no  circumstances  you  can  do  it.  Uh,  certainly  as  of  4:00  this  afternoon,  I assume  we  would
have  a  hearing  and  a  decision  tonight.  So,  I haven't  given  this,  uh,  a  whole  lot  of  thought.  But  there
are  some  reasons  why  I think  this  may  be  the  case.  You  heard  about,  uh,  several  sections  of  state
code  tonight.  Another  provision,  uh,  procedure  on  appeal.  This  is  Virginia  C ode  S ection  -2312
a nd  it  actually  goes  through  the  things  that  you,  uh,  that  you  can  do,  uh,  with  anything  that  comes
to  you  on  appeal.  This  is  an  appeal  of  a  zoning  violation.  And  specifically,  what  it  says  is  that  you
may  reverse  or  affirm  wholly  or  partly  may  modify  in  order,  requirement,  decision  or
determination  appealed  from  does  anything  about  continuing  public  hearings  or  putting  something
off.   And  probably  the  reason  for  that  is  because  the  BZA , strictly  speaking,  under  Virginia  law,  is
to  make  a  decision  within  90  days  of  the  filing  of  the  application.  Now,  that  didn't  happen  here,
partly  because  of  me.  And,  um,  by  the  time  we  initially  talked  about  this,  I was  simply  unavailable.
I'll  tell  you  a  little,  just  a  little  bit  about  me.  I've  been  doing  what  I do  for  about  40  years,  and  I've
appeared  before  B oards  of  Z oning  A ppeals  in,  I believe,  at  last  count,  eight  different  counties.
And  I've  had  the  pleasure  of  being  before  the  Spotsylvania . A  number  of  times  in  the  in  the  past,
over  the  past  couple  of  decades.  So,  um,  90  days.  I ask  for  a  continuance.  No  question.  At  the
April  meeting.  Now,  what  does  that  do  to  the  90  days?  Well,  I certainly  can't  come  to  you  and  say,
oh,  well,  you  put  me  off  till  June.  Violation  by  90  days.  Now,  what  happened  then?   There  was  not
a  quorum,  so  there  wasn't  a  hearing,  and  it  was  put  off  until  today.  Are  you  still  within  the  90
days?  Arguably  with  the  request  for  continuances?  I don't  know,  but  I think  that's  probably  why
you  don't  have  something  in  your  bylaws  or  under  S tate  law  saying  you  can  put  these  things  off
because  you've  got  that  90-day  requirement  now.  Um,  I think  that's  all  that  I wanted  to  get  on  the
record  here.  Um,  it  is , it  continues  to  might  be  my  position.  The  C ounty  A ttorney  is  not  a,  uh,  a
representative  of  the  Board  of  Supervisors  who  can  speak  at  these  proceedings , the  Board  of
S upervisors.  That's  because  they're  not  a  party.  The  Board  of  Supervisors  can  advise  staff.  There
was  a  question  that  came  up  about  you're  all  seeking  counsel.  Yes,  you  can.  But  very  clearly  under
Virginia  ethical  decisions  and  Virginia  law,  that's  got  to  be  an  outside  counsel.  The  C ounty
A ttorney  cannot  give  the  BZAs  of  Virginia  legal  advice.  Why?  Because  you're  a  quasi-independent
judicial  body,  and  the  Board  of  Supervisors  had  specific  interests  that  you  are  weighing  in  on.  So
that  is  verboten.  And  I will  tell  you,  just  a  few  months  ago,  I had  a  case  in  King  George  County
before  their  BZA , and  they  had  to  call  in  their  own  attorney  to  advise  them  on  the  merits  or  lack
of  merits  of  the  application.  We  worked  it  all  out,  but  they  had  their  own  counsel,  and  that's  the
way  it  has  to  be  done.  My  partner  and  wife,  I don't  know  if  Mr.  Bramlett  remembers  this,  but  she
was  on  Stafford  County's  Board  of  Zoning  Appeals  for  a  number  of  years  until  she  went  on  the
school  board.  All  right.  Now,  let's  talk  about  the  substance  of  this  case.  And  enough  about  process
and  procedure.  First  thing  I would  like  to  do,  and  I'm  trying  to  save  everybody  some  time  here.  I
have  a  number  of,  uh,  exhibits  that  we're  going  to  talk  about,  and  I have  a  set  for  each  of  you.  And
I do  this.  You  know,  I'm  an  old  lawyer.  I don't  do  video  presentations,  but  I have  some  paper  for
you. All right. And so,  I have, uh, eight sets of mine , a nd one of these is for  y ou to have.  Now,

Board of Zoning Appeals  Minutes          July  15,  202 5
P  a  g  e   | 32
just  so  everybody  will  understand,  those  of  you  who  were  here  in  March  will  recall  that  I ask  that
this  be  put  off,  because  there  were  five  of  you  there  that  night,  which  meant  that  if  I were  going  to
prevail,  I had  to  have  4  or  5.  Okay,  well,  there's  still  not  a  full  BZA  here.  And  I complained  loudly
about  the  new  members.  And  you're  permitted  to  have  alternate  members  to  the  Board  of
Supervisors,  of  course,  has  to  appoint  those.  But  six  of  you  are  here  tonight  And  mathematically,
it  doesn't  matter  anymore.  Because  whichever,  if  you  went  for  votes  one  way  or  another,  that  one
additional  member  wouldn't  matter,  wouldn't  affect  the  outcome.  So  that's  why  I'm  not  up  here
jumping  up  and  down  about  that  now.  With  me  tonight  are  Mr.  and  Mis s  Ramsey  and  you  heard  a
lot  about  the  Ramsey's.  Uh,  seated  next  to  them  are  the  Lathams . Now,  Mrs.  Latham  is  Mr.  Gentry's
daughter,  and  Mr.  Latham  is  his  son -in -law.  And  they  operate  hydroseeding.  The  hydroseeding
business  right  now  and  have  for  a  number  of  years.  In  fact,  I think  I think  Mr.  Latham's  been
involved  in  the  business  for  probably  almost  three  decades.  Okay.  He  was  a  partner  with  Mr.
Gentry.  Now,  a  good  bit  of  incorrect  information.  So  let  me  see  what  I can  do  to  correct  some
information.  The  Ramsey ’s  purchased  both  parcels  in,  uh,  2022.  Um.  They  are.  They  were
residents  until  then  of  Wardensville , West  Virginia,  where  Mrs.  Rams e y  worked  for  the  M ayor's
O ffice.  I guess  what  she  did  in  the  M ayor's  O ffice,  one  of  the  things  she  did,  she  serviced  the  Board
of  Zoning  Appeals.  So,  she  knows  a  little  bit  about  this.  Now,  they  came  here  and  found  their
retiring , w anted  to  retire  in  Spotsylvania  County  and  found  what  they  thought  was  the  perfect
setup , a  house  to  live  in  with  an  existing  business  going  on  next  door.  Uh,  that  would  provide
them  with  rental  income  to  supplement  their  retirement.  So  that's  how  they  got  into  it.  And  they
did  all  the  title  work.  You  know,  believe  it  or  not,  most  people  don't  think  when  they  come  upon
something  like  that,  if  there's  nothing  in  the  land  records,  they  don't  think,  oh,  we  better  call  the
C ounty  and  be  sure  this  business  that  at  that  point  had  been  going  on  for  three  decades,  that  there
was  something  unlawful  about  that  business.  Why  would  they?  It  was.  Their  ongoing  had  been
ongoing.  Mr.  G entry  was  still  around , u m , a nd  he  is  still.  And  we'll  hear  some  about  him  in  just  a
moment.  Now,  to  the  staff's  credit,  when  this  came  up,  they  took  care  of  the  issue  on  the
advertisement  of  the  apartment.  It  was  already  set  up.  There  was  somebody  staying  there  when
they  purchased  the  property.  Well,  they  assumed  there  was  no  issue  with  that  either.  But  as  soon
as  they  found  out  there  was  an  issue,  they  fixed  it.  So , I mean,  they're  not,  you  know,  trying  to
hold  out  here  and  hold  open  the  possibility  that,  you  know,  they  can  prevail  or  that  they're  right
and  nobody  else  knows  anything  about  this.  They  cooperate  where  they  can.  So  why  didn't  they
do  what  Miss  Shealy  said?  Well,  to  their  credit,  the  staff's  credit,  they  did  sit  down  with  the
Ramsey ’s  and  talk  about  the  special  use  permit.  So,  the  Ramsey ’s  check  that  out.  So,  uh,  filing
fee,  about  $6,000 , n ow  we're  talking  about  a  new  use  here.  Uh,  engineering , a bout  $30,000.  They
check  with  some  engineering  companies  that  prepare  a  GDP.  Um,  and  the  whole  thing  has  to  be
re-engineered.  It's  not  like  you  just , there  it  is , g et  your  special  use  permit,  and  off  you  go.  No.  Uh.
And  it  gets  worse.  I told  them  how  I told  you  about  $10,000  in  legal  expenses  if  we  went  that  way.
I'm  in  the  wrong  profession.  Engineers  make  all  the  money,  not  the  lawyers,  believe  it  or  not.  But
then  the  construction  part  of  it.  Why?  Because  they're  tripping  the  ordinances  that  exist  today.  A
new  parking  lot.  Construction  estimates  they  got  $70,000  of  commercial  entrance,  $20,000.  So
they  were  not  enthusiastic,  nor  did  they  think  it  would  be  possible  for  them  to  cover  those  kinds  of
expenses  to  do  what  the  C ounty  said  they  needed  to  do.  So  now , that  was  when  I got  involved  in
the  case.  I'd  had  no  involvement  with  that  and  we  started  looking  into  it  now.  Um,  when  the
county's  position  on  this  is  varied  somewhat,  first  they  said,  well,  this  2010  subdivision  you've
heard about and we're going to talk about more that at that point in time. They lost their, uh,

Board of Zoning Appeals  Minutes          July  15,  202 5
P  a  g  e   | 33
accessory  use  argument  or  whatever.  But  the  C ounty  backed  off  of  that  and  now  just  says,  you
know,  it's  got  to  be,  uh,  an  su p  and  that  it's  a  C ontractor's  O ffice.  You  know  what?  The  ordinance
hasn't  changed  over  the  past  20  years.  We're  going  to  go  back  and  talk  about  why  that's  significant
here.  Now,  the  addresses  are  a  bit  confusing.  Um,  in  two  in  the  when  this  was  started  on  these
parcels,  there  was  only  one  address.   It's  the  address  of  the  hydroseed  business , n ow , 13614.  The
second  address  doesn't  even  come  into  play  until  the  o ld,  a  subdivision  of  the  parcels,  and  then
that  became  13620  in  2010.  So,  it  was  all  part  of  one  address  originally.  Now,  let  me  go  through  a
bit  of  the  history  and  the  first  thing  that  I'm  going  to  do,  because  the  Ramseys  don't , are,  aren't  part
of  this  history.  You  know,  they  came  into  the  scene  very  belatedly  in  2022,  but  are  having  to  bear
the  effect  of  the  way  the  C ounty  is  viewing  this  now.  Now,  Mr.  Gentry,  uh,  conducted  the  business.
Miss  Shealy  was  right , a nother  location  on  the  same  road  on  B lack  Marsh , a nd  it  was.  There  was
a  house  and  a  business  on  the  same  property.  He  then  purchased  these  parcels,  and  the  first  thing
he  did  was  to  apply  for  a  building  permit  to  build  the  building  that  now  houses  the  business  on  his
new  two  parcels  and  he  built  it  and  he  then  moved  the  business  there.  Lock,  stock  and  barrel  moved
it  right  over  to  the  new  parcel  and  started  operating  in  2001.  Now  I have  the  first  exhibit  that  I
gave  you  was  is  an  affidavit  from  Mr.  Gentry.  Now,  Mr.  Gentry  could  not  be  here  himself.  I don't
think  his  health  is  particularly  well,  but  he  did,  uh,  swear  out  an  affidavit  here,  and  he  talks  about
the  background  that  I'm  sharing  with  you  here.  Um,  so , a nd  he  tells  you  where  he  lives  now.  So,
from  2004,  2022,  he  lived  at  the  house  that's  now  on  the  premises , b ut  the  house  came  later  after
the  building  that  houses  the  business.  Um,  now  he  obtained  in  2003.  We're  going  to  look  at  these
documents.  He  obtained  a  zoning  use  permit.  That  was  what  we  needed  to  do.  We're  going  to  look
at  that  and  talk  about  the  significance  of  it.  And  prior  to  2001,  he  operated  on  another,  um,  address
on,  uh,  on  Black  Meadow.  I think  I mispronounced  that  previously , a nd  then  we  have  the  2010
subdivision  h e  goes  through , we're  going  to  go  through  all  of  these  documents.  And  so  thereafter,
after  2010,  he  owned  both  parcels  and  continued  to  live  in  the  house  and  operate  the  business.
Now,  at  no  time  did  he  operate  the  h ydroseeding  business  or  any  part  of  it  from  his  house.  It  was
always  done  in  the  building  that  he  built  in  2001  and  moved  his  business  to.  Never  changed.  Never
operated  out  of  the  house.  The  house  came  later.  Okay.  Now,  that  was  the  only  use  permit  that  he
got.  It's  never  been.  Nobody's  ever  retracted  it.  Uh,  and  I'll  tell  you  why.  It's  why  it's  significant  as
we  go  through  this . Uh,  and  nothing  has  changed  about  the  business  to  the  present  day.  And,  of
course,  we're  on  appeal  now.  The  first  document  after  the  affidavit  from  Mr.  Gentry  is  the  building
permit,  the  2000  building  permit  for  this  what's  called  a  pole  building,  which  is  what  it  is,  describes
how  it  was  built.  And  from  its  very  outset,  it  has  housed  the  h ydroseeding  business.  That  business
was  moved  there  as  soon  as  the  building  was  up,  according  to  his  affidavit  in  2001.  All  right.  So
that's  what  it  was.  Now  it  says,  and  we'll  probably  point , o h , w ell,  it  says  agricultural  uses,  but  it's
not  agricultural  uses.  You  know,  it's  some  kind  of  contracting.  Well,  you  know  what,  in  those  days,
you  know,  you  used  you  seeding  work.  It wasn't  all  done  automatically.  You  used  a  disk,  you
seeded  pastures.  So,  I mean,  there  certainly  was  an  agricultural  argument.  And  what  was  stored  in
the  building  was  seed  and  straw,  you  know,  for  the  business.  So,  you  know,  I understand,  uh,  the
way  they're  interpreting  the  ordinance  today,  but  this  was  25  years  ago  that  we're  talking  about.
And,  um,  and,  and  the  whole  home  occupation  argument  has  been  made  here.  The  ordinance
changed  dramatically  in  2015.  Now,  there  was  a  contractor's  office  definition  back  then,  but
nobody  ever  brought  it  to  anybody's  attention.  Now , the  next  thing  that  happened  is  in  2003,  and
that's  the  next  document  that  I have.  And  on  this  one , Mr. , a nd  this  is , this  is  an  ambiguous
document , a nd Miss Sh eal y will say, well, look at this and I'm going to say, look at this. Now

Board of Zoning Appeals  Minutes          July  15,  202 5
P  a  g  e   | 34
what?  It  says  that  nobody's  hiding  anything.  Here's  what  it's  going  to  be  used  for , the  Greenway.
Hydroseeding.  Hydroseeding.  Okay.  Straw  mulching  for  erosion  purposes.  Okay.  Establishing
grass.  So  that's  what  they  said  they're  going  to  do.  Okay.  Now  down  at  the  bottom  it  says  zoning.
Okay.  For  home  office  only.  Well,  Mr.  Gentry  thought  he  had  a  zoning  use  permit  to  do  what  he
was  already  doing.  Okay.  And  proceeded  accordingly.  Now,  what  I would  emphasize  about  this  is
that  nothing  was  nothing  was  held  back.  And  most  importantly,  at  the  time  that  this  zoning  use
permit  was  issued,  there  was  only  one  building  on  the  property.  The  building  that  then  had  the
Hydroseeding  company  and  continues  to  have  the  Hydroseeding  company.  There  was  no  house.
There  was  no  place  for  a  home  occupation.  I also  would  point  out  that  what  it  says  here,  and  you
may  say,  oh,  well,  that's  just  a  misnomer.  It  says  Home  Office.  Well,  there  is  no  definition  of  Home
Office  under  the  zoning  ordinance  then,  or  I believe,  even  now.  So  maybe  they  meant  home
occupation.  And  you've  heard  a  lot  of  regulations  about  what  a  home  occupation  is.  But  none  of
that  was  clear  back  then.  And  this  doesn't  say  home  occupation.  As  you  all  can  appreciate  more
than  most,  every  term  like  this  is  specifically  defined  in  the  ordinance.  There's  a  list  of  definitions
that  goes  on  for  pages  and  pages  and  pages  and  pages.  Home  office  is  not  there.  All  right.  So,  um.
So,  Mr.  Gentry  proceeded.  Of  course,  the  business  is  continuing  throughout  all  of  this.  He's  now
over  ten  years.  He's  ten  years  into  his  business.  Now,  he  did  build  a  house  on  the  same  parcel.  Uh,
I believe  his  affidavit  indicates  that  sometime  later  in  2004,  that  the  house  was  constructed.  I don't
know  exactly  when  they  moved  in  there,  but  that  there  was  a  house  on  the  same  parcel.  Now  they
all  had  the  same  address.  There's  136 14,  that  was  the  address  for  both  the  office  and  the  house.  It
was  all  one  parcel.  And  nothing  about  those  changes  changed  until  w e  get  to  2010.  And  I'm  just
I'm  just  going  through  some  facts  right  now.  We'll  get  back  to  the  significance  of  these  later  in
2010.  Mr.  G entry,  as  he  says  in  his  affidavit  for  personal  and  estate  reasons,  he  subdivided.  He
did.  He  did  a  family  subdivision  and  he  divided  these  two  parcels.  And  there's  a  plat  That  is  the
next  exhibit.  It  was  approved  by  the  county  by  the  n ow , I think  Deputy  C ounty  Administrator ,
Wanda  Parish , fo r family  subdivision.  I think  this  signifies  that  it's  compliant  with  Spotsylvania
Ordinance.  And  what  does  the  plat  show?  It  shows  very  clearly  that  there  are  two  buildings  at
issue  here.  There's , and  this  is  very  hard  to  read , u h,  you  probably  can  use  a  magnifying  glass,  but
the  parcel  that  is  shown  on  this  parcel  38,  the  building  shown  on  that  does  say  pole  building.  And
we  think  those  are  the  dimensions  at  the  top,  but  it  does  say  pole  building.  And  then  on  the  other
parcel  the,  the  house  says  dwelling.  So,  there's  no  question  that  the  dwelling,  excuse  me,  got  the
dwelling  on  one  parcel.  Am  I talking  too  close  to  the  mic?  Uh,  you  got  the  dwelling.  You  got  the
dwelling  on  one  parcel  and  the  business  on  another  parcel.  And  there  they  are,  spelled  out  in  black
and  white.  Now,  if  there  were  something  incorrect  about  this,  about  the  arrangement,  about  the
configuration  of  the  parcels,  if  it's  subdivided,  is  it  an  accessory  use  still?  Don't  know.  But  nothing ,
n othing  was  brought  to  Mr.  Gentry's  attention.  And  so,  he  just  did  his  family  subdivision  and
moved  on  with  what  he  was  doing  for  another  12  years  in  that  exact  place.  And  exactly  the  same
thing.  Now,  now,  you  heard  a  little  bit  about,  um,  about  these,  uh,  business  licenses.  And  I'm  going
to  explain  to  you  why  there  are  a  whole  lot  more  significant  than  Miss  Shealy  has  indicated , now,
every  single  year  of  the  business,  Uh,  Mr.  Gentry  and  the  Latham ’s  after  him,  have  obtained  their
business  license  from  the  county  until  the  threshold  was  dropped.  And.  And  then  what  Miss  Shealy
said  is  correct.  Now,  I had  them  go  back  in  their  records,  many  of  these  business  licenses,  and  I've
attached  them.  I'm  going  to  explain  to  you  why  they're  significant.  So,  since  2009,  I believe,  all
the  way  through  2022,  year  after  year  after  year  after  year,  they  obtained  their  business  license,
which from their standpoint, they understood as a license to do the business, which is what most

Board of Zoning Appeals  Minutes          July  15,  202 5
P  a  g  e   | 35
lay  people  would  think.  Now  we  know  that  it's  mainly  a  way  for  the  C ounty  to  raise  money  and
that  Z oning  and  the  C ommission er  of  the  R evenue  were  are  different.  But  I'm  going  to  connect  the
two  for  you  in  a  minute.  But  the  important  thing  right  now  is  that  they  did  that  year  after  year  after
year  after  year  after  year.  No w  what?  What  is  the  significance  of  th is ?  Well,  let's  talk  about  the
C ounty's  argument  for  just  a  moment . T he  C ounty  says  that  they  needed  SUP  for  a  C ontractor's
L icense  and  S hop.  Now,  that  was  there  in  2003,  you  know,  when  this  thing  was  set  up.  Even  under
the  2003  permit,  nobody  said  anything  about  a  C ontractor's  O ffice.  You  know,  maybe  they
approved  it  for  this,  whatever  this  home  office  is.  But  nothing  was  said  about  a  C ontractor's  O ffice.
Now,  that's  when  it  was  set  up.  And  that's  when  Mr.  Gentry  got  the  z oning  u se  permit.  Whatever,
whatever  that  was.  He  didn't  hide  anything.  Uh,  and  he  went  on.  Now,  the  reason  that  this  is
significant.  Um.  I'm  looking  and  this  is  the  next  exhibit  that  you  have.  I'm  looking  at  your
ordinance.  Spotsylvania  ordinance  section  23 -4.1 .3.3. , u se  more  decimals  in  Spotsylvania  zoning
ordinance  than  any  other  ordinance  I'm  familiar  with.  Okay,  but  look  at  what  it  says.  It  says  under
be  prior  to  the  issuance  of  a  zoning  permit,  we  have  to  worry  about  occupancy  permit.  The  code
compliance  department  shall  conduct  an  on-site  inspection  of  the  premises  to  determine  if  the  uses
and  structure  and  occupation  of  the  site  comply  with  all  the  requirements  of  the  chapter  and  any
specifications,  plans,  conditions,  site  plan  approval . Now  Miss  She aly  was  telling  you  about
definitions  of  home  occupation  that  came  into  being  in  2015.  This  portion  of  the  ordinance  has
been  there  according  to  the  code  since  1995.  So,  it  was  there  in  2003  when  the  zoning  use  permit
was  issued.  Now,  if  somebody  had  come  out  or  somebody  did  come  out,  would  they  have  seen
when  that  permit  was  issued,  they  wouldn't  have  seen  a  house.  It  wasn't  there.  They  would  have
seen  a  building  and  a  business.  That  was  it.  Okay.  So,  whether  they  did  the  inspection  or  not,  I
don't  know.  They  were  compelled  to  do  it.  And  if  they  had,  it  would  have  revealed  why.  What
Miss  Shealy  now  says  was  the  case  was  simply  not  true  back  then.  Somebody  either  missed  it  or
looked  at  it  and  said,  looks  good  to  me.  And  on  they  go.  But  they're  required  to  make  that
determination  under  your  ordinance  now.  And  your  ordinance  then.  And  they  either  did  and  they're
wrong.  And  all  this  time  has  lapsed  or  they  didn't  do  it .  Same  result,  I think.  So , now,  the  question
that  all  that  poses , this  contractor's  office , w hen  should  the  C ounty  have  imposed  it?  It  was  back
there  then  the  ordinance  in  2003.  No,  nobody  said  anything  about  that  when  they  made  their
application  for  a  zoning  use  permit.  Nobody  said  anything  about  that  when  the  inspection  occurred
or  should  have  occurred.  So  off  went  Mr.  Gentry  and  his  partner,  Mr.  Latham,  and  proceeded  with
the  bids  because  they  had  no  way  of  knowing  there  was  anything  wrong  at  that  point.  Now  then,
we have the 2010 family subdivision. Now, why is that significant here? And what we have is
o pportunity  for  the  C ounty  to  look  at  this  conf iguration  and  say,  oh,  wait  a  minute.  Okay.  What's
the , w e  got  a  business  there.  It's  there  on  the  plat.  Uh,  is  there  anything  wrong  with  this  now?  I
mean,  do  we  have  the  permits?  I mean,  but  the  then  I believe,  uh,  D irector  of  P lanning  signed  off
on  the  plan.  It's  fine.  Complies  with  the  ordinance.  Okay.  Now  attendant  to  both  of  these  things ,
b oth  the  application  of  the  ordinance  section  we  talked  about , a nd  for  approval  on  a  subdivision
plat , there's  an  analysis  that's  required.  Is  the  applicant  complying  with  the  ordinance?  It's  a  zoning
determination  that  has  to  be  made  at  those  steps.  You  know,  this  is  not  a  question  of,  oh,  well,  why
didn't  they  know  about  it  with  those  interactions  with  the  C ounty?  Why  didn't  the  C ounty  know
about  it  or  raise  the  question?  They  didn't.  We're  going  to  talk  about  why  that's  significant.  Um,
n ow  the  nothing  changed  until  the  Rams e ys  bought  the  property  and  there  was  the  inspection,
which  was  incidentally  brought  about  because  Mrs.  Ramsay,  who  thought  she  had  a  right  to  rent
the  apartment,  was  advertising  online  and  somebody  reported  it.   The  C ounty  came  out  to  check ,

Board of Zoning Appeals  Minutes          July  15,  202 5
P  a  g  e   | 36
o therwise , we  wouldn't  all  be  here  today.  But  you  know  that  that's  not  an  issue  anymore  now.  So
going  back  through  the  through  the  history,  trying  to  figure  out  what  the  what  the  law  is  here  that
governs  this  now.  What  I would , what  I want  to  do  is  to  explain  to  you  how  all  these  things  fit
together  now.  Now,  first,  back  to  the  business  license  for  a  moment.  Here's  a  license.  If  you  go  to
legal  dictionary,  a  license  is  a  permit  from  an  authority.  This  is  from  Oxford  Dictionary , US  law.
I've  got  two , a  permit  from  an  authority  to  own  or  use  something,  do  a  particular  thing,  or  carry  on
a  trade,  a  permit , I've  got  a  business  license.  What  does  a  layperson  think  about  that?  Good  to  go.
US  law.  Um,  permission.  Permit  permission  granted  by  a  qualified  authority,  permitting  a  licensee
to  do  something  that  would  otherwise  be  prohibited.  They  got  a  license  there.  Okay.  That's  what
laypeople  think.  Okay . Now.  Now  I want  to  talk.  I want  to  try  to  pull  these  things  together.  Now
for  you  a  bit.  Um,  first,  the  narrowest  issue  before  you  are  whether  the  notice  of  violation , the
notice  of  violation  is  correct,  that  they  need  this  special  use  permit,  that  they're  in  violation  of  the
portion  of  the  ordinance  that  was  quoted  to  you.  Well,  you  know  what?  The  C ounty  had  at  least
two.  And  I'm  going  to  argue  even  more  than  that,  opportunities  to  make  that  determination  to
decide  this  is  a  C ontractor's  O ffice.  In  2003,  when  the  use  permit  was  issued,  in  2010,  when  the
subdivision  plan  was  approved.  And  I'm  going  to  tell  you  and  I'm  going  to  tell  you  why  in  a
moment.  Each  and  every  time  a  business  license  was  issued,  there's  a  zoning  component  to  it  that
I'm  going  to  explain  to  you  now.  So  multiple  times  so  is  the  zoning.  Is  the  violation  correct?  You
know,  maybe  back  in  2003,  if  they  had  said  that,  but  they  didn't.  So  what?  Again,  what  does  the
layperson  what  did  Mr.  Gentry  learn  from  that?  Good  to  go.  You  know,  he  didn't  know  anything
about  C ontractors  O ffices.  He's  just  trying  to  do  what  somebody  tells  him  to  do.  And  he  comes
down  to  the  county  and  they  give  him  a  form  to  fill  out,  and  he  says,  here's  what  I'm  doing  a nd
they  give  him  his  own  use  permit.  And  here  we  are.  22  years  later.  Now,  now,  the  reason  that  all
of  these  things  are  important  is  that  there  is  a  section,  Virginia  law,  and  I,  I give  this  to  you  as  well
because  I suspect  you  probably  have  access  to  it.  But  Virginia  code  section  15 .2 -2311C  and  that
is  a  very  commonly  used  portion  of  Virginia  law,  particularly  by  landowners,  because  this  is  what
it  provides  for  in  no  event  shall  a  written  order  requirement,  decision  or  determination.  Very  broad
and  written  only  applies  to  the  written  order.  And  if  you  go  back  earlier  in  the  statute,  you'll  see
why  that's  the  case.   So  they  didn't  even  have  to  be  in  writing , b ut  we  have  writings  here.  Anyway,
determination  made  by  the  Z oning  A dministrator  or  other  administrative  official,  any  officer,  any
administrative  officer  in  the  interpretation  of  the  zoning  orders,  any  business  having  to  do  with
zoning  ordinance,  um,  it  shall  be  subject  to  change,  modification,  reversal  by  any  Z oning
A dministrator  or  other  administrative  officer  after  it  can't  be  changed  after  60  days  have  lapsed
from  the  date  of  the  determination,  whatever  it  was.  Now,  the  other  component  of  that,  which  is
sort  of  a  vesting  test,  but  it's  narrower  than  the  vesting  statute,  which  some  of  you  may  be  familiar
with , b ut  what  it  says  is  that  the  recipient,  the  beneficiary  of  that  determination,  had  to  rely  on  it  in
good  faith.  You  better  believe  that  Mr.  Gentry  relied  on  what  he  got  from  the  C ounty  in  good
faith,  and  went  on  conducting  his  business.  He's  a  lawful  man.  He  applied  every  single  year  for  his
business  license,  you  know,  paid  the  county  that  money.   He's  not  trying  to  get  out  of  anything.  He
didn't  hold  anything  back  when  he  filled  out  the  2003  permit  application,  did  what  somebody  told
him  to  do  and  said  what  he  was  doing.  All  right.  So  that  the  only  way  you  get  around  that  is  if  the
determination  was  obtained  through  malfeasance  of  the  Z oning  A dministrator  or  other
administrative  officer  through  fraud,  don't  have  any  of  that  here.  So,  what  do  we  have?  We  have  a
2003  zoning  use  permit  that  was  issued  to  Mr.  Gentry,  and  that  he  relied  on  and  used  to  continue
his business , n ow , a nd the C ounty was required to go out there and look. And they did or they

Board of Zoning Appeals  Minutes          July  15,  202 5
P  a  g  e   | 37
didn't.  Who  knows?  I don't  think  it  matters.  Nobody  changed  or  asked  a nything  changed.  And  Mr.
Gentry  relied  on  all  of  that.  So,  it's  over.  It  can't  be  changed.  That  zoning  use  permit,  you  know
that , that  continues.  Um,  you  know,  there's  been  nothing  that  would  happen  that  would  revoke  it ,
o kay , for  his  hydroseeding  business.  All  right.  Now , then  we  get  to  2010,  in  the  subdivision.  And
once  again,  you  have  the  C ounty  P lanning  D irector  approving  that  subdivision  that  shows  two
parcels,  a  building  on  each  parcel.  One  is  a , it's  called  a  pole  building , ok,  a nd  the  other  is  a
dwelling , o kay , the  pole  building  can't  exist  by  itself , n ot  according,  not  according  to  your  Z oning
A dministrator.  You  got  to  have  a , you  got  to  have  that  sup.  Okay,  well,  there  was  no  business  ever
conducted  out  of  the  house.  There  was  never  any  home  office,  home  occupation,  whatever  that
term  means  in  2003.  Now  I'm  going  to , I'm  going  to  go  one  better  than  that.  The  business  license
connection  says,  oh,  well,  that's  the  Commissioner  of  Revenue.  Let  me  ask  you  this.  How  many
residents  of  Spotsylvania  County  do  you  think  look  at  the  C ounty  government  and  think,  oh,  the
Commissioner  of  Revenue  or  the , o h,  yeah,  they're  independent  constitutional  officers.  They  don't
have  anything  to  do  with  P lanning  and  Z oning.  That ’s  what , that's  what  the  Z oning  A dministrator
tells  you.  They're  different.  How  many  people  you  think  understand  that?  It's  all  it's  all
Spotsylvania  County.  So,  you  know  now.  But  even  more  important  than  that,  the  last  thing  I
included  for  you,  this  is  this  is  on  the  county  web  page.  And  I pulled  it  off.  And  this  is,  you  know,
for  those  people  who  want  to  know,  how  do  I obtain  a  business  license?  And  it  tells  you  what  to
do  and  what  you  got  to  have,  and  you  know  what  number  one  is  on  the  list.  And  approved  zoning
use  permit  must  be  issued.  So,  there  is  a  connection.  The  Commissioner  of  Revenue  is  not
authorized  to  issue  a  business  license  unless  there's  a  zoning  use  permit.  Now  that's  the  connection
between  that  independent  constitutional  officer.  The  Commissioner  of  Revenue  and  Planning  and
Zoning.  Now,  Miss  Williams  asked  for  that  every  year.  I don't  know,  but  this  is , that's  what  you
got  to  have.  Mr.  G entry  had  one.  Nobody  ever  questioned  it.   Okay.  So,  year  after  year  after  year
after  year,  he  applied  for  and  obtained  his  business  license.  So,  I add  that  to  the  section  2311
argument  that  that  is  another  zoning  determination , the  absence  of  one  was  the  C ounty's  job  to
check  it  out.  If  they  didn't,  shame  on  them.  But  year  after  year  after  year.  So  what?  What  do  you
think  that  what  does  that  do  to  the  perception  of  the  recipient  of  those  business  license?  Well,  of
course , a nd  we  talked  about  that , u m,  I'm  good  to  go.  I got  my  business  license.  Let's  me  do  this.
And  the  business  license  says  you're  right , o n  its  face , hy droseeding.  No  secrets  here.  That's  what
they're  doing.  Contractor's  office.  Nothing.  Doesn't  appear  anywhere  except  in  the  staff  report  and
in  the  notice  of  violation.  Nowhere  else  in  the  history  of  this  business  enterprise  h as  that  word
ever  come  up,  even  though  it  was  in  the  ordinance  in  2003  and  2010  and  consistently  since  that
period  of  time?  Now  it  comes  up.   Now  my  position , I also  want  to  be  sure  and  bring  to  your
attention  that  there  are  attached  to  your  exhibits  there , there  are  eight  letters  from  the,  um,
neighbors  and  nearby  residents  saying  what  a  great  business  this  is,  how  long  it's  been  going  on.
you  know.  Is  it  private  enterprise?  They  don't  bother  anybody.  They  don't  disturb  anybody.  They're
very  polite.  They  help  their  neighbors.  Um,  you  know,  nobody  has  ever , that  we  know  about ,
complained  about  this  business  on  this  property.  Okay?  Somebody  complained  about  the  room
that  was  going  to  be  rented  that  was  in  this  building,  but  that's  it.  All  right.  Now,  I believe  those
are  the,  um,  the  main  points  that  I want  to,  um,  that  I wanted  to  present  to  you.  What  am  I, what
am  I asking  you  to  do?  You  know,  the  way  the  way  the  Z oning  M anager  said,  oh,  let  them  continue
with  this  illegal  activity  that  they  have  to  have  a  special  use  permit  for , a nd  they've  been  speeding
along  the  highway  for  all  of  these  years  getting  away  with  it.  You  know  what?  Dastardly  people ,
o f course, the implication is they knew they were doing wrong and they did it anyway. They didn't.

Board of Zoning Appeals  Minutes          July  15,  202 5
P  a  g  e   | 38
They  didn't  because  they  got  approvals  and  thumbs  up  from  the  county  at  every  step  of  the  way.
Nobody  ever  raised  a  problem,  even  though  there  were  numerous  interactions  with  the  county.  So,
what  I'm  asking  you  to  do  is  to  find  two  things.  Number  one,  that  the  notice  of  violation  is  incorrect.
They  were  not  required.  They're  not  required  now  to  get  that,  that  special  use  permit,  because  that
train  has  left  the  station.  And  it's  not  a  case  of  their  continuing  to  speed.  It's  a  case  of  the  C ounty
continuing  to  miss  it,  miss  it,  miss  it,  miss  it,  miss  it.  Opportunity  after  opportunity  after
opportunity.  And  there  were  any  number  of  mechanisms  in  place  where  it  could  have  been  caught
and  corrected  years  ago  before  they  dragged  the  Ramse y ’s  into  this.  And  the  Ramse y ’s  now  have
to  deal  with  this.  What  I think  was  about  a  $200,000  problem , if they're  going  to  continue  their
retirement  plan,  which  they  can't.  So,  I'm  going  to  ask  you  to  find  that  the  notice  of  violation  was
incorrect.  But  the  C ounty  has  lost  its  authority  to  find  that  violation  today.  Number  one  and  number
two , a nd  these  two  are  connected  under  the  code  section.  We  talked  about  15 .2- 2311  subsection
C.  It  specifically  gives  you  or  anybody  a  court  any  enforcing  authority,  the  ability  to  say,  wait  a
minute.  There  was  a  whole  slew  of  zoning  determinations  here.  Every  time  somebody  goes  to  the
zoning  ordinance  or  should  have  gone  to  the  zoning  ordinance,  had  a  mandate  to  do  so,  like  the
ordinance  section  we  talked  about.  Go  look  at  the  place.  Every  time  they  do  that,  there's  an
interpretation  involved  there  of  the  zoning  ordinance,  implicit  interpretation.  Uh,  and,  and  that  is
all  this  statute  requires.  And  very  clearly  the  Gentry's  and  now  the  Ramsey ’s  have  relied  on  that
and  good  faith.  Nobody  out  there  trying  to  pull  the  wool  over  anybody's  eyes,  just  people  trying  to
conduct a business and enjoy their retirement home and the rental property next door.
Um,  so  that's  what  I'm  asking  you  to  do  now.  I'm  happy  to  answer  any  questions.  Um,  if  you  have
any  questions  about  the  history,  um,  the  Latham ’s  are  here,  and  they  go  all  the  way  back  to  the
days  that  we've  been  talking  about.  So,  I mean,  they  can , they  may  be  able  to  clarify  something
that  I haven't  been  particularly  clear  on , a ll  the  Ramsey ’s  know,  is  they  got  a  big  mess  and  they
didn't  make  it.  And  the  resolution,  the  solution,  it  sounds  like  sounds  like  the  best  thing  in  the
world.  Oh,  just  go  get  your  SU P . You  know  what?  With  zoning  the  way  it  is  today,  how  many
regular  people  do  you  think  can  afford  to  zone  their  properties  or  obtain  special  use  permits  with
the  requirements  that  the  localities  have  that  require  engineers,  lawyers,  and  major,  major
improvements?  Because  you  know  what?  It's  a  new , it's  a  new  development.  So , you  don't  get  to
go  back,  you  know,  to  whatever  it  was  30  years  ago.  You  know,  you  got  to  deal  with  what  the
ordinance requires now.
Okay.  All  right.  Thank  you  for  your  patience.  I know  it's  been  a  very  long  evening  for  you,  and
I'm happy to answer any questions. Or as I indicated, the Latham ’s may have the ability to.
Mr. Bell –  Well , thank you sir. I believe we do have some questions, or at least one question.
Mr. Leming  - And I'll do what I can to answer them.
Mr.  Bramlette  - Sir,  I hate  to  keep  you  wound  up  and  so  forth,  because  I've  been  in  your  meetings
before,  as  you  know.  Um,  I would  like  for  you  to  go  back  to  the  statements  that  you  made  about
the  1995  original  agreement  as  the  law.  Not , not  they  weren't  involved  in  2000  until  2003,  but  in
1995, you stated that there was a set for this type of situation.
Mr.  Leming  - There  was  a  set.  Well , I'm  not.  Well,  I'll  back  up.  I'm  not  sure  exactly  what  you
mean,  Mr.  Bramlett,  but  the  business  was  established  on  another  parcel  in  1993,  and  it  was  all

Board of Zoning Appeals  Minutes          July  15,  202 5
P  a  g  e   | 39
done  as  Mr.  Gentry  wanted  to  do  on  this  parcel  house  and  the  business  on  the  same  property.  And
they  had,  at  least  as  far  as  we  know,  and  maybe  the  L athams , maybe  Mr.  Latham  can  fill  this  in.
They  had  all  their , I don't  know  when  Spotsylvania  first  adopted  their  business  license,  but
whenever  it  did,  they  started  getting  one.  But  they  conducted  the  business  on  that  property.  Now,
did they actually have some kind of zoning use permit? Do you know?
Speaker  from  audience  - I believe  they  did.  It  was  in  1993  when  they  first  obtained  the  business
license.
Unknown  speaker  - And  so , in  1993,  when  they  moved  into  this  whole  building  on  the  property
that they then established a business. as defined in 2003, not as we understand it today.
Mr.  Leming  - Yes,  sir.  I think  that's  yes,  I think  I,  I think  what  you're  saying  is  absolutely  correct.
Yes.  The  business  was  established  in  2003.  Now  I can't  tell  you , a nd  we're  just  operating  on
recollections  here.  The  old  property  on  B lack  M arks.  Where  is  it?  Black  Mark  or  B lack?  Black
M eadow.  Sorry.  I want  to  go  to  the  marsh  rather  than  the  meadow.  Um,  but  back  in  1993,  I'm  not
sure  we  can  tell  you  definitively  or  whether  the  C ounty  has  any  record.  We've  done , w e  did  a
massive  FOIA  looking  for  whether  there  was  some  kind  of  license,  uh,  or  zoning  use  permit  that
was  issued  then.  So , what  we  do  know  about  is  what  happened  starting  in  2000  a nd  Mr.  Gentry
purchased  this  other  parcel  and  got  his  building  permit  and  built  the  whole  building.  And  you've
seen  the,  then  the  application.  He  goes  to  get  a  zoning  use  permit.  The  application  right  on  his  face
says  for  the  hydroseeding  business,  which  has  then  been  in  existence  for  ten  years  in  Spotsylvania
County, there shouldn't be too much issue about that.
So,  he  does  that.  And  notwithstanding  what  it  what  it  says  about  office  use,  whatever  that  means ,
u m,  it's  not  part  of  the  ordinance,  but  whatever,  whatever  the  intent  there  was,  there  was  no  house.
There  was  no  house  in  which  to  have  what  is  now  defined  as  a  home  occupation.  Big,  big  ordinance
change.  In  2015,  the  Miss  Shealy  was  reading  from , I don't  know  what  it  said  back  then,  but  he
went  ahead.  He  thought  he  had  the  authority  proceeded  with  the  business  in  2003,  in  the  pole
building,  and  then  finished  his  house  and  moved  in  next  door  and  incidentally,  the  other  parcel
that  was  subdivided.  He  just  talked  about  one  subdivision,  the  parcel,  that  is,  is  it  to  the  east  or  the
west  of  the  whole  building?  Earl's  parcel.  Is  it  east?  I think , we  think  to  the  east  of  the  pole  building
that  was  subdivided  for  the  for  the  Latham ’s  for  them  to  live  there.  Okay.  So  that's  that.  And  you
all  stil l,  s till  live  there.  They , they've  moved  now.  But  that  was  originally  set  up  for  them  to  be
next  to  the  business  next  door  to.  So,  family  business,  uh,  the  in-laws  involved.  And  they  did
everything that they thought they needed to do.
Mr.  Bramlette  - So  you  were  very  specific  about  being  at  the  bottom  of  the  page  that  the  permit  in
2003 was for an office use?
Mr.  Leming  - No,  there's  no  question.  And  it  says  that.  And  that's  why  I say  it's  an , it's  a , it's  a
somewhat  ambiguous  document.  No  question  it's  a  zoning  use  permit.  But  the  issue  at  the  top,  it
says  exactly  what  it  is.  And  if  we  were  to  comply  with  the  ordinance  that  Miss  Shealy  has  been
talking  about,  it  couldn't  have  been  done  in  that  building.  There  would  have  had  to  have  been  a
home. There was no home when it was issued.

Board of Zoning Appeals  Minutes          July  15,  202 5
P  a  g  e   | 40
Mr. Bell - Are you are you referring to 2003 that there was no home in 2003?
Mr.  Leming  - That's  correct.  Yes,  sir.  There  was  no  home.  There  was  no  home  until  I think  he
moved  in  2004.  It  was  after  the,  the,  the  after  the  building  was  there.  Yeah.  And  that's  I think  he
tells  you  that  in  his  affidavit  that  he  moved  into  the  home  later.  But  if  the  C ounty  had  done  its
investigation  with  regard  to  the  zoning  use  permit,  which  they  were  required  to  do  by  the
ordinance,  they  would  have  seen  no  home.  Here's  where  the  business  is.  Nobody  lives  there.  That's
where  the  hydroseeding  business  is.  So  well , is  that  legal?  Is  that  authorized  under  the  ordinance?
But  nobody , either  somebody  looked  and  said  it's  okay , or  nobody  looked,  even  though  they  were
obligated  to  do  that  before  they  issued  the  zoning  permit.  So  that , that  I think,  is  that  I think  is  the
argument.  And  we  don't  have  a  piece  of  paper  that  says,  oh,  you  can  have  this  business  in  this
building,  you  know,  from  this  time,  and  here's  your  zoning  use  permit.   You  know,  but  what  we
do  have  is  a  zoning  use  permit  that  Mr.  Gentry  thoughtfully  authorized  him  to  proceed  with  the
business  and  the  county,  not  following  up  to  do  what  it  is  that  the  ordinance  required  that  they  do
to  prevent,  you  know,  if  there  was  a  misunderstanding,  if  there  was  something  else  that  they
needed, that was the time to raise it, not 20 years later.
Mr.  Bramlette  - You've  made  a  big  deal  out  about  having  a  business  license.  Yes,  sir.  And  that,
um, it is dependent upon having a use permit.
Mr. Leming  –  Yes, sir.
Mr.  Bramlette  - But  the  that  document  wasn't  site  specific  as  to  where  that  use  permit  had  to  be.  It
just had to have a use permit. Right.
Mr.  Leming  - Well,  the,  um,  I think  the  answer  to  that  question  is  that  when  they  applied  for  the
business  license,  it  was  always  for  the  address  of  the  pole  building.  You  know,  it  was  it  was  not
for  any  other  address.  Year  after  year.  That's  the  address  that  they  used  for  the  business.  You  know,
after 2003, there was there was no other, uh, or after 2001, there was no other address they used.
Mr. Bramlette –  Prior to 2003 .
Mr. Leming  -  There was one in 2003.  I ’m sorry, sir.
Mr. Bramlette –  Prior to 2003, there was a different address?
Mr. Leming  –  There was a different address on Black Meadow, yes, okay.  Not far away.
Mr.  Bramlette  - And  we  have  no  knowledge  of,  of  when  the  business  license  was  first  issued  as  to
what site that was actually issued against.
Mr.  Leming  - No,  I don't  have  any.  But  the  address  that  has  been  used  and  was  used  when  the
permit  was  issued  is  the  one  for  the , for  the  pole  building.  You  know,  I mean,  it's  not  it's  not  some
other  address,  you  know,  that  has  been  the  address  has  been  the  same  for  that  property  since  13614

Board of Zoning Appeals  Minutes          July  15,  202 5
P  a  g  e   | 41
until  2010  when  the  subdivision  occurred.  That  was  the , that  was  when  another  address  was
assigned  to  the  house  because  it  was  on  a  different  parcel.  Okay.  Yeah.  Now,  I know,  I know  that
this , this  is  something  that  raises  a  lot  of  questions,  but  there  were  a  lot  of,  uh,  statements,  I think,
that  were  made  by  the  Z oning  A dministrator  that  were  what  I'll  describe  as  over  the  top.  That  went
to  motive,  uh,  which  is  just  totally  inapplicable  here.  Now,  maybe  some  of  my  presentations  over
the  top  also.  But,  um,  you  know,  these  people  thought  they  were  doing  what  was  right  and  thought
they had obtained the things that they needed from the C ounty to conduct their business.
You  know,  one  thing  that  was  said  that's  really  important  here,  um,  complaints.  You  know,
Spotsylvania  is  a  complaint  only  county.  If , if  the  zoning  office,  if  the  zoning  police,  you  would
have  zoning  violations  right  and  left  in  the  C ounty.  I mean,  you  can  find  a  zoning  violation  on
almost  any  property,  but  the  only  way  it  comes  to  somebody's  attention  is  through  a  complaint.  In
this  case,  it  was  for  an  unrelated  matter.  Nothing.  Nothing  had  anything  to  do  with  the  business.
But  your  zoning  officer  says,  oh,  wait  a  minute , they  don't  have  what  they  need.  Of  course,  he's
looking  at  today's  standards.  And  it  has  been , it  has  taken  a  year  to  put  all  of  this  together  and
figure  out  what  happened  back  then  and  what  was  issued,  and  why  this  didn't  happen  or  why  that
didn't  happen.  But  I think  we've  given  you  a  pretty  good  representation  of  what  this  is  about  and
why  this  is  a  zoning  violation  that  should  be  overturned  and  or  determined  invalid  because  of  the
applicability of 15 .2 -2311C.
Mr. Bell - Any other questions from board member s ?
Ms.  Robinson  - Um,  because  there  may  have  been  a  possible  oversight  in  2003  to  2000  and
whatever. Why would we continue to look at it as an oversight and not bring it up to date?
Mr.  Leming  - Well,  for  the  reasons  that  I,  we  talked  about  with  regard  to  that  code  section.  Because
if  they  made  a  zoning  determination,  I've  tried  to  set  that  up  for  you  after  60  days.  They  don't  get
to  change  their  mind,  even  if  it  was  a  mistake.  That's  what  the , that's  what  the  statute  says.  Okay.
So , and  this  was  in  place , so  in  2003,  um,  what  the  C ounty  did  was  to  issue  a  zoning  use  permit,
and  that  has  to  be  read,  I think,  in  conjunction  with  that  ordinance  section,  before  they  issue  that
permit,  they're  required  to  come  take  a  look.  And  they  either  did  and  said  it's  okay  or  they  didn't.
But  in  either,  in  either  case,  there  was  a  zoning  determination  that  was  made  or  bypassed
deliberately  at  that  point,  and  a  failure  by  the  C ounty  to  comply  with  the  ordinance.  So , it's  not  it's
not  a  matter  of  their  continuing  to  be  in  violation.  What  it  comes  down  to  is  that  under  St ate  law,
it's  too  late  for  the  C ounty  to  raise  it.   They  had  their  chance  when  they  back  in  2003.  They  could
have  come  out  then  and  looked  at  the  property  and  said,  wait  a  minute,  there's  no  house.  Are  we
doing  this  here?  What  is  the , what  is  this?  This  is  for  a  home,  but  there's  no  home.  They  didn't  do
it.  So  that  that's  over  and  the  county  had  the  chance.  And  the  purpose  of  that  statute  is  to  prevent
this  exact  kind  of  thing.  So  that  years  and  years  after  the  fact , the  C ounty  finds  something  that  they
didn't  do  years  and  years  and  years  ago,  and  these  people  have  used  this  for  their  livelihood,  for
their  family.  And  then , then  the  C ounty  looks  back  and  says,  oh,  well,  you  should  have  done  this
way  back  then.  So  that's,  I think,  what  it  comes  down  to.  They  had  the  opportunity.  The  statute  is
there  to  protect  them.  It's  to  say  to  the  C ounty,  stop,  you  made  a  determination.  60  days  has  passed
and  very  clearly  what  the  statute  says.  They  have  to  rely  on  it.   Good  faith  reliance  they  did.  There's
no  evidence  whatsoever  that  they  knew  that  what  they  were  doing  was  unlawful.  You  know,  they
kept  applying  for  their  business,  their  business  license  every  year.  And  I don't  want  to , I don't  want

Board of Zoning Appeals  Minutes          July  15,  202 5
P  a  g  e   | 42
to  diminish  the  importance  of  that  either,  because  that  does  have  that  connection  requiring
that every  year.  I don't  know  why  the  Commissioner  of  Revenue  and  the  Z oning  O ffice  don't
coordinate  with  each  other,  but  that's  what  you  all  have  on  your  web  page  saying  if  you  want  to
get  a  business  license,  you've  got  to  have  a  valid  zoning  use  permit.  Okay.  So,  somebody's
dropping the ball and you can't hold that against them under that statute. 
Mr.  Bell  - Any  other  questions  from  the  board.  We  can  open  this  up.  I didn't  know  if  your  clients
wanted to speak or had anything to add. We can open this up for P ublic.
Mr.  Leming  - Well,  they , I don't  think  there's  anything.  Anybody  here?  Is  there  anything  else  that
you  all  believe  I missed  or  want  to  say  about  this?  This  is  Mrs.  Ramsay.  Remember?  She  worked
for BZA. Okay, so remind yourselves.
Ms.  Rams e y  - Just  like  to  reiterate.   Having  had  somewhat  of  a  background  working  in  a  Mayor's
Office  for  years  under  three  mayors,  working  with  town  councils,  ther e  is  no  way  we  would  have,
um,  taken  it  upon  ourselves  to  say,  okay,  we're  going  to  get  one , w e're  going  to  get  one  over  on
Spotsylvania  County.  I mean,  as  an  individual,  um,  I'm  retired  now,  but  previously  in  a
professional  setting  to  enforce  C ounty  code.  Um,  I, there's  no  way  we  would  have  done  something
intentionally  to  have  u ndermined,  you  know,  your  authority  or  the  authority  of  this  C ounty  that,
you  know,  when  we  bought  the  property,  we  obviously , I think  Mr.  Lemming  has  explained  it.
You  know,  it  was , it  was  legal,  it  was  running  with  a  current  business  license  and  all  of  those
things  were  already  in  place.  And  when  we  found  out  the  one  violation  about  the  apartment,  we
took  care  of  that,  you  know,  that  was  something  that  was  previously  there.  We  assumed  it  was
something  we  could  carry  over.  They  said  no.  And  so , we  took  care  of  that.  I mean,  we've  even
gone , we've  even  had,  um,  the  fire  and  rescue  people  come  in  to  look,  to  make  sure  that  there's
access.  There's , and  there's  no  problem  at  all  with  that.  I mean,  you  know,  we've  tried  other  steps
and  the  bottom  line  is  the  requirements.  That  was  told  to  us  that  we  were  going  to  have  to  do  in
order  to  bring  this  compliant  with  the  new  codes.  It  was  cost  prohibitive.  Yes , w e  bought  that
separate  property  to  supplement  our  retirement  income.  That's  why  we  bought  it.  And  then  to  have
to  bring  it  up  to  what  today's  code  is,  you  know,  $ 70,000  or  more.  We've  gotten  estimates  on  paving
and  all  of  those  types  of  things.  It's  just  cost  prohibitive.  It's  not  going  to  allow  us  to  be  able  to  use
that property for the purpose that we bought it.
Mr.  Bell  -  Can  I just  ask  a  follow  up  question?  Um,  you  would  have  to,  as  the  owners  of  the
property , under  a  special  use  permit  front  that  cost,  you  know,  paving  whatever.  Um,  but  you  are
not  the  owner  of  the  business,  correct?  Um,  have  you  had  any  discussions  with  the  owner  of  the
business about going in together to cover the cost for a SUP?
Ms.  Ramsay  - Well,  this  is  the  thing.  If  it  was  the  $6,000  cost  and  that's  it,  we  would  have  done
that.  We , like  Mr.  Lemming,  but  we  would  not  have  invested  in  his  retirement.  We  would  have
done  that.  But  when  we  met  with  the  group,  you  know,  to  see  what  we  needed  to  do,  you  know,
there  was  paving  there  were  all  of  these  requirements  in  engineering,  all  of  these  things.  It  was  just
totally  unaffordable  for  us.  I mean,  we  just  can't  afford  that.  Yeah.  So,  we  were  we  talked  about.
Sure.  If  it  was  just  the  cost  of  the  permit.  Okay , a nd  I think  the  Lathem's  had  even  said,  you  know,
we  will  help  you  with  that  fee.  Um,  but  we  knew  that  going  before  then,  that  board,  they  would

Board of Zoning Appeals  Minutes          July  15,  202 5
P  a  g  e   | 43
have  said,  well,  did  you  pave , did  you  do  this?  No,  we  can't  afford  that.  It  would  have  just
diminished our, uh, our retirement income. So, we're not owners of the business.
Mr.  Leming  –  It ’s  cheaper  for  me  to  come  to  a  BZA  hearing  than  for  them  to  file  a  zoning
application.  Anything  else?  I don't  want  to  put  you  on  the  spot,  but  anything  else  that,  uh , y ou  all
are  the  only  ones  that  know  you  were  there.  Uh,  there's  something  that  needs  to  be  clarified  or
anything  you  want  to  add  to  what  we  talked  about  or  did  we?  We  spent  a  lot  of  time  talking  with
the  neighbors  and  these  people  get  along  great.  They  love  there  they  love  their  tenants  and  the
tenants  like  their  landlords,  you  know,  but,  you  know,  they  would  like  to  continue  this.  And  Mr.
Um,  Mr.  Gentry,  um,  you  know,  one  of  the  first  things  I said,  well,  you  know,  did  they , what  did
they  tell  you  about  the  property?  I mean,  did  they  make  any  false  any  misrepresentations  to  you
know,  it  was  very  clear  that  what  the  what  the  Gentry ’s  had  represented  to  the,  uh,  to  the  Ramsey ’s
was  what  they  absolutely  believed  about  the  property.  You  know,  this  is  a  caveat  emptor  state.
You  don't  have  a  course  of  action  there.  Okay.  So  that's  the  that's  the  horns  of  the  dilemma.  But
you  can  solve  it  by  applying  Virginia  code  section  15 .2 -2311C  or  holding  that  that  is  simply  not  a
valid,  uh,  uh,  v iolation  of  the  zoning  ordinance  and  overturning  that.  All  right.  Thank  you.  And  I
don't , we , there  were  a  number  of  people  that  had  come  the  first  time  we  were  here.  When  I was
here  in  March,  we  had  several  of  your  neighbors  that  had  come  up,  and  some  of  them  came  back
in  June,  I think,  didn't  they?  Okay.  But,  you  know,  three  times  is  a  lot  to  ask  people  to  come  to
these  things.  But  please  look  at  the,  um,  the  eight  statements  from  your  neighbors,  the  neighbors
and  nearby  property  owners,  uh,  particularly  about  the  business,  if  you  would.  All  right,  all  right.
Thank  you  all.  If  there  are  no  other  questions.  And  thank  you  all , h ave  the  patience  of  J ob.  Well,
the men, yes, but thank you all.
Mr. Bell –  He stated the hearing would be continued to the August meeting.
Ms. Shealy –  If anyone is interested in going to the Certified BZA member training, please let us 
know and we can get you registered.  The opening session is an in-person session, that ’s one day.
The closing session in October is just one day, and there is homework in-between.
Mr.  Bramlette  - No,  I did  it  in  2012.  Three  days  in  Richmond.  Ten-day  course  over  a  period  of
time.  And  we  also  had  to  go  to  another  Spotsylvania,  to  another  board  and  see  what  they  were
doing  against  what  we  had  envisioned.  And  we  had  to  go  as  a  sit  in  to  this  board  and  then  go  to
another board, King George, for me to see how they'd conducted it.
Mr. Leming  –  H e advised that he needs clarification on the next hearing date of the BZA.
Mr. Bell –  T he 19 th  of August .
Mr.  Leming  –  I , um,  have  a  public  hearing  scheduled  in  King  George  at  the  same  time  and  will  be
unavailable.   The  notices  and  advertisement  have  already  occurred.   My  partner  again  and  have
her  here,  but  she's  not  going  to  have  the  benefit  of  having  heard  any  of  our  discussion  or  any  of
your  questions.  So,  I would  ask  you  to  take  that  into  consideration.  Um,  you  know,  I don't  want
the  Ramsey ’s  to  be  here,  not  represented  by  counsel.  And  certainly,  when  we  came  here  tonight,
we  were  not  expecting  that  something  was  going  to  get , a nd  I appreciate  the  compromise  that  you

Board of Zoning Appeals  Minutes          July  15,  202 5
P  a  g  e   | 44
all  were  trying  to  work  out  here.  I can't  be  so  continuous.  Everybody  can  have  their  say.  But,  um,
on that particular day.
There was discussion about the 9 0  day  requirements .
Mr.  Leming  - Oh,  I'm  sure.  And  but  I've  already  blown  part  of  that  because  I asked  you  for  the,  the
continuance  in  April.  So,  I mean,  you  know,  I think  probably  that  under  any  circumstance  would
have  carried  it  to  tonight  if  it's  been  90  days  since  then,  if  not  last  month.  and  I realized  y'all  didn't
have  a  quorum.  But,  you  know,  it's  been  certainly  it's  been  90  days  since  we  were  last  going  to
have  a  hearing  in  April.  So,  I don't  know.  I don't  know  what  you  do  about  that.  And  I don't  know
what  the  consequence  is  because  as  I indicated,  I don't  see  anything  in  the  bylaws  or  under  state
law  that  that  permit  that.  Have  all  these  other  obligations  and,  you  know,  other  clients,  some  of
them  not  nearly  as  nice  as  the  Ramsey ’s.  Counting  on  me  to  do  things.  Okay.  All  right.  Well,  thank
you very much. Yes, please. Please feel free to.
There was brief discussion amongst staff regarding room availability and advertising.
Ms. Mann provided clarification on required motions.
Ms.  Shealy  - And  again,  can  I just  say  that  this , um,  was  postponed  requested  b y , Mr.  Lemming
three  times  for  a  continuation.  So,  it  continues  to  be  a  cost  to  the  C ounty  for  advertising . So,  it's
been  at  his,  except  for  the  last  one  when  we  did  not  have  a  quorum.  But  I have  the  request,  and  I
spoke  with  the  chairman  regarding  continuing  that  one , a lso  prior  to,  um,  not  having  a  full  board.
So  I, I wouldn't  want  to,  you  know,  violate  any  90-day  time  frame  if  that's  what  it  is.  But  we  already
have  probably  done  that,  except  for  we  have  had  a  request  for  continuance  for  all  of  these.  And  I
believe that if it's at the request of the applicant.
Mr.  Leming  - Um,  the  board , has  the  board , this  board  has  granted  me  one  continuance,  and  I
appreciate  that.  So,  I don't , I continue  to  dislike  the  representations  that  are  being  made  now.  Miss
Shealy  was  prepared  to  ask  for  something  in  June,  but  that's  irrelevant  because  you  didn't  have  a
quorum.  Okay.  So  anyway,  I can't  do  anything  about  the  timing  of  this  and  about  the  membership
that  you  get  here  and  other  conflicts.  So,  I don't  I don't  really  think  it's  fair  or  appropriate  to  throw
that  back  up.  Uh,  we're  doing  the  best  we  can,  and  I'll  make  my  dates  available,  you  know,  to  try
to  accommodate  you.  But  I do  not  appreciate  Miss  Shealy  saying,  oh,  well,  you  know,  we  have  all
this  cost  and  bear  these  expenses  and,  oh,  we've  continued  it  three  times  for  him  because  that's  not
accurate. Yeah.
Mr.  Bramlette  - Yeah,  sir.  Would,  uh,  would  you  say  you  have  presented  your  case  to  this  court  at
this time?
Mr.  Leming  - Oh,  yes,  sir.  The  only  thing  it  really  comes  down  to  is  whether  or  not  you  think
about this thing for a month and whether you have any other questions.

Board of Zoning Appeals  Minutes          July  15,  202 5
P  a  g  e   | 45
Mr. Bramlette - so you're , so you're partner lawyer should be able to sit here and listen to the 
board have our discussions, because that's the next step in this procedure.
Mr. Leming  –  She ’s a good listener.
Mr.  Bramlette  - So  you  know  I would  assume  that  you  would  give  her  your  notes  and  therefore,
um,  you  know,  if  it's  down  to  you've  made  your  presentation  and  it's  up  to  the  board  now  to  have
its  discussions  and  vote,  then  there  should  be  no  reason  why  we  couldn't  do  it  on  the  19th  with  her
and presents.
Ms. Mann –  we can also provide a transcript ahead of the meeting.
Mr.  Leming  - All  right.  Let  me  let  me  tell  you  what  I think  about  what  you've  just  said.  And  you
know,  Mr.  Bramlett,  that  I'm  married  to  my  partner?  And  so,  when  I asked  her  to  come  do
something  like  this,  it's  not  like  just  asking  a  subordinate  associate  to  do  it.  Uh,  and,  you  know,  I
have  to  say,  this  is,  as  these  cases  go,  one  of  the  more  complicated  ones.  So,  what  it  for  her  to
intelligently  answer  your  questions?  She's  got  to  be  as  up  on  the  case  and  the  facts  as  I am,  because
you  all  have  heard  all  this,  and  she  can  read  a  transcript.  Sure.  So,  I mean,  that's  a  possibility,  but
the  last  thing  in  the  world  that  I want  to  do  is  to  go  back  to  that  well,  one  more  time  and  say,
remember  that  the  Ramsey's  case  down  in  Spotsylvania.  Well,  here's  what  they  did.  And  what  that
means  is,  you  know,  they  want  us  to  come  back  on  the  19th  and  I can't  so  I understand  what  you're
saying,  though  I would  appreciate,  uh,  I mean,  if  there's  another  way  to  do  it.  Tell  you  what.  You
know  what  if.  I mean,  I'm  not  sure  it  really  matters,  uh,  to  this  county , u h,  if  this  case  doesn't  get
addressed  again  until  the  F all.  So,  um,  I will  on  the  record.  I'll  tell  you  on  the  record , I will  wait
again.  I had  to  do  this  in  in  March  or  in  April.  I will  waive  any  90-day  argument,  which  I think  we
can do by agreement.
Mr.  Bramlette  - That  was  going  to  be  my  next  question.  Okay.  As  long  as  she  has  it  on  file  that
you  agree  that  you  would  not  use  this  as  appellate  above  us,  if  you  don ’t go  your  way,  then  we're
okay.
Mr. Leming  - If well, if you let me come back. Yes, yes. If you let me come back, say see you in 
September , u h, then yes, I would agree to waive that  n ow if you make her come at the next 
meeting.
Motion and vote:  On a motion by Mr. Thillman n , seconded by Mr. Bramlette, the BZA voted 
to continue the hearing to September 16, 2025.    
Vote:
Ayes: 6 Winkler, Bramlette, Robinson, Bell, Brown, and Thillmann
Nays: 0
Absent: 0
Abstain: 0
The motion passed 6-0.

Board of Zoning Appeals  Minutes          July  15,  202 5
P  a  g  e   | 46
Adjournment:
Motion and vote:  On a motion by Mr. Thillman n , seconded by Mr. Bramlette, the BZA voted 
to continue the hearing to September 16, 2025.    
Vote:
Ayes: 6 Winkler, Bramlette, Robinson, Bell, Brown, and Thillmann
Nays: 0
Absent: 0
Abstain: 0
The motion passed 6-0.
The meeting adjourned around 11:30 p.m.
Minutes approved August 19, 2025
Paulette Mann, Commission Secretary